US has a dynamic economy, a strong labor
market and it will outperform a lot of
peers.
>> There are sufficient signs of weakening.
>> We see consumers cutting their spending
back but continuing to get jobs.
>> Job growth is slowing down. You could
see a bigger slowdown starting even in
the next jobs report.
>> Unemployment rate has been the most
important data point you get, you know,
for a while now. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Deadline Day coming in
with a bang, a flurry of new tariff
announcements, roing stocks. Meanwhile,
a blockbuster week of tech earnings
revealing some divergence in the
American exceptionalism story. And the
true test is in the data. The July jobs
report dropping about 2 and 1/2 hours
from now. a quiet just end of summer
month and Marie, welcome back. We
learned a lot overnight about a final
tariff rates as well as a slew of
different trading partners and how
they're dealing with that. How much
remains to be seen? A lot remains to be
seen. I mean, these are at large the
highest tariff rates we've seen since
the 1930s. Across the board, everyone's
going to have a 10% minimum. Then for a
number of countries, it's 15% or higher.
And we've seen the Trump administration
do most of these trading partners who
thought 15% was going to be a bad deal.
That's actually become the base case for
a good deal. Then there's a number of
partners I'm focused on because in the
White House statement, it talks about
how these rates for a slew of partners
like India, like Switzerland will go
into effect in 7 days. So even in this
final deadline that the president said
is best and final, they're giving some
of these trading partners, I'm thinking
of Switzerland right there, top of the
board, 39%. April 2nd, Switzerland was
31%. I think they were still giving some
of these partners some wiggle room.
>> Well, that's the idea of August 7th
being the time when it actually goes
into effect, the wiggle room, the
negotiations. What's your sense of how
much they are ongoing when it comes with
partners like Taiwan, like Switzerland
who you just mentioned?
>> I think they are ongoing and they even
say that in this readout they will still
engage with a number of countries that
they are dealing with right now that
they had of these trade talks. I was in
Switzerland though in June and what I
heard from the TR top trade negotiator
was they were given asurances by
Secretary Besson and Ambassador Jameson
Greer who will be joining us this
morning that as long as they were still
talking in good faith negotiations they
wouldn't snap back to that April 2nd
tariff rate and it looks like today they
are and even then some and markets are
having a little bit of digestion issue.
Uh Danny Burgerer joining us this
morning. John's off and I have to say I
look at what's happening in equities
this morning. How much of this is
nervousness about the tariffs and how
much is this just a top blowing off
after pretty blockbuster types of
results and how much of it is Amazon
disappointment and this narrative that
tech can keep spending and we're going
to just keep cheering the capex that is
now seriously being challenged. I think
it is all of the above, but it is a
serious reappraisal this morning of if
that spend can continue and if that's a
good thing for these companies if they
aren't showing up and showing a real
return on their AI investment. Are we
really going to allow them to spend that
way? But if there is a pause in spending
from the likes of Amazon cuz they're
being punished, do they then fall
behind? It turns into a really
complicated narrative for them.
>> Being punished for not beating enough.
And that I think is something that we'll
have to come back to. Also just adding
to the deluge, the fire hose of
different story narratives this morning.
We also have a jobs report. Otherwise,
we would have come in and it would be
jobs Friday as we get the non-farm
payrolls report for the month of July.
And Danny, this to me is going to be
really key after a real question of how
much the Fed is really going to be able
to cut rates at all this year, let alone
twice. The onus is on the next two
months of data because we had a Fed that
did not move. Because we had a Fed that
cracks are now appearing. very logical
people can look at the labor market data
we've gotten at this point and come up
with two completely different
narratives. On one side, it is a
resilient economy and it is a labor
market that is strong. On the other side
of thing, it is real cracks that are
showing. It's real concern about things
like AI replacing jobs. It's a labor
force that has declined a lot in
participation and are we going to see a
supply shock? It is two very different
outcomes with very different
consequences for policy. And with Jay
Powell basically telling us this week,
the main number he is looking at is the
unemployment rate. So how important is
that going to be when it comes to the
markets and they're trying to basically
price in when the first rate cut is
going to be two CPIs, two job reports
before the next Fed meeting. And the
president is expecting a September rate
cut. Got all that a real slow summer in
markets. You can see uh just a little
bit of digestion issues with equities
near futures near their session lows as
we head to the open 1% decline ahead of
the open for the S&P. The dollar is on
track or just had its best performance,
its biggest strengthening going back to
2022 for the month of July. You could
see yields just creeping a little bit
higher ahead of that jobs report. Right
now coming up this hour, Sebastian Page
of Tro's new tariff rates send stocks
lower. Tom Forte of Maxim Group on the
diverging outlooks from Apple and Amazon
and Michael Paglesy of Wells Fargo
looking ahead to that payrolls report.
We begin this hour with our top story.
President Trump announcing sweeping new
global tariff rate hikes. Bloomberg's
Brendan Murray joins us now for more.
Brendan, what's the latest and what's
the latest on how fungeible some of
these rates still are?
Yeah, it's this I think what we're
seeing now are the uh more clearly are
the are the broad contours of President
Trump's America first trade agenda. Uh
we've seen uh if you compare them to the
April 2nd reciprocal uh tariffs that he
announced uh they're they're they've
come down a fair bit. Uh we've got a
two-tier baseline system essentially.
you have uh about 70 countries with this
base of uh of 15% going up to 41%. And
then you have everybody else who gets
10%. So you're looking at a you you're
looking at more assurance but not
exactly a system that's designed for uh
an efficient uh uh way to look at at how
to how global trade is going to be
conducted when you have all of these
various uh tariff lines. Uh it's going
to be it's going to be difficult for
businesses to sort out. It's a it's a
it's we're in the heart of the shipping
season right now. Uh so you're heaping
this on on on the logistics industry. So
it's going to be uh and I agree with
Amry, some of these some of these rates
that like Switzerland got uh and India
received that those deals didn't get
over the line. You could throw Taiwan in
there as well. They're at 20%. They
thought they were going to get get a
deal. They're an important semiconductor
exporter. So these next seven days, I
think you're going to see uh some deal
making still to be made if they can get
if they can get it before these ter
these these rates kick in on August 7th.
>> So August 1st the deadline August 7th
kind of the new deadline. Bloomberg's
Brendan Murray, thank you so much uh for
being with us. We'll catch up with you
later this morning. Here's a view on
Wall Street. Sebastian Paige of Tro
Price writing, "I'm bullish on macro and
fundamentals but cautious about
valuations and sentiment. Optimism is
priced in." Sebastian, I am so glad to
say, joins us this morning. Happy
Friday. I guess it's quite a deluge.
What a week indeed. What a day. I wonder
how much what we're seeing in markets
right now is because of high valuations
where we've been versus tariffs and some
speculation about what that could mean
for economic growth. Yeah, I was
thinking about this earning season and
as a philosophical question, is it still
a surprise if everybody expects a
surprise? You know, coming in earnings
season, everybody was saying the
earnings are going to be good. So,
you're seeing some of that unfold. I
like to say a wise person once told me
that happiness equals reality minus
expectations.
So look, stock prices are up 30%, Lisa.
In three and a half months, the price
earnings rats at 22. Meme stocks are
back. Cryptos rallying. That's what I'm
worried about. I'm not worried about the
fundamentals so much.
>> So this feels more like a top blowoff to
you than it does real assessment of some
sort of greater pain as a result of
policy. Is that correct? Do you think
that we are overestimating the
ramifications of tariffs on both
corporate profitability as well as
growth? You know, when just listening to
the opening of the show today for it, it
just makes it look like tariffs drive
the entire US economy, right? We talk as
if tariffs drive the entire US economy.
They don't. Goods subject to tariffs
represent 9% of GDP. So there's a 91% of
GDP that matters. I don't want to
minimize the impact, but tariffs don't
drive the entire US economy. The
consumer is doing just fine. Hey, we
have fiscal spending that in our minds
is going to be stimulative. And look,
you have strong earnings. You know, we
could get another 10% earnings growth
for the next 12 months. We just had Q1
13% year-over-year. The beat rate right
now on sales this quarter is 80%, the
10-year average is 64. So, there's more
to the economy and markets than tariffs.
I know it doesn't sound like that this
morning.
>> Has Trump conditioned the markets though
to digest a higher tariff rate? Yes.
Look, I you you can see it. In April, an
analyst sent me a chart of a trade
uncertainty index and he overlaid the
S&P 500 and it was just that the entire
market was trading on the trade
uncertainty index. You can get all that
data.
>> So, the uncertainty is actually worse
than the policy.
>> I I think this is what was going on in
April, right? When when the market
crashed and then recovered. Right now
the market is becoming more desensitized
to tariffs and to me that makes sense. I
just go back to the bottom line. I do
think that the fundamentals are strong
enough to sustain earnings growth but at
the same time look uh last week in our
assocation committee the b word came up
and it's starting to come up on your
show as well the bubble word. Now, no
one on our committee thinks that we're
about to pop a bubble, but we're
discussing questions as to whether are
we in the runup to a bubble. And you
have all these little signs that are
starting to show
>> and that maybe makes us more vulnerable
to accidents. I was speaking with Julian
Emanuel of Evercore earlier this week
who pointed to what happened in copper
as an example of this. A bar shock
happens because we're unprepared for
tariff changes on copper. Given how high
asset prices are, even if the economy
are not tariffs and tariffs are not the
economy, are we now more vulnerable to
announcements that might cause fissures
we didn't expect?
>> Danny, I think that's the word is
vulnerable with a price earnings ratio
of 22. By the way, it's not a good
timing indicator, but if you look at,
you know, what the tail risk looks like
historically when the price earnings
ratios are higher than 20, you do see a
higher probability of a meltdown. You
also have a higher probability of a melt
up, which is interesting. In fact, if
you look at stocks, how they do when
you're at an all-time high for the next
12 months, they average like 10%. It's
it's really not bad, but the tails, the
extreme events, melt up, melt down, are
much fatter. You know, the probabilities
are higher than usual.
>> Well, I guess kind of the irony is if it
is a bubble that's growing, the best
thing you can typically do in those
periods is go long. So, is that what you
would be doing right now, Sebastian?
>> So, we're weighing the fundamentals
against those rising valuations, and we
end up at neutral between stocks and
bonds, but we're long diversification.
So markets are showing historically high
levels of concentration. We're a little
bit worried about that. And we're short
duration, short interest rate
sensitivity, position for potential
upside surprises on inflation. We've
been running really low month over month
on inflation for the last four or five
months. But the one-year swap that the
traders are pricing in, it's at three
and a half.
>> So are you bleeding into the American
exceptionalism story or leaning out?
because it seems like the rest of the
market is leaning in and you're
suggesting maybe it's time to look the
other way.
>> Look, long-term we're leaning in. It's
just fundamentally it's a more dynamic
economy. But as a tactical trade right
now, we're looking at international
value. We are long international value
and small and midcap. Couple weeks ago,
I had an analyst show me a relative
valuation dashboard between the Russell
3, so the entire US stock market and the
rest of the world. And I was convinced
the numbers were wrong because the
margins were higher outside the US than
in the US was 20 versus 15. The earnings
growth was higher outside the US and the
ROE was higher 13 versus 8. So it's
getting getting ready to yell at the
analysts. I never yell at analysts, but
the numbers he said the numbers were the
numbers were technically correct. He was
just showing me median numbers, not
weighted average numbers. So there are
plenty of stocks in the small and mid
and value sectors outside the US that
have lower valuation say 14 15 range
versus 19 and that have better
fundamentals.
So that's what we're playing right now
and there's momentum in that trade as
well.
>> Sebastian Paige wonderful to see you
even as you rage at your analyst
Sebastian Page of Tro right now. Let's
get you an update on stories elsewhere
this morning. Here is your Bloomberg
brief with Lizzie Burton. Lizzy.
>> Hey, Lisa. President Trump unleashed his
latest round of tariff announcements
just hours before his August 1st
deadline. Most countries are facing a
baseline 10% tariff rate, but Trump
slapped 35% tariffs on Canadian goods
not covered under the US MCA. The new
tariffs will take effect August 7th to
give US Customs and Border Protection
time to prepare. Elsewhere, Apple shares
are trading higher in the pre-market.
The company reporting its fastest
quarterly revenue growth in more than
three years with revenue rising 9.6% to
$94 billion. Strong iPhone sales and a
rebound in China helped beat estimates
despite a projected tariff hit. And
shares in Amazon are falling in the
pre-market. The online retail giant
projecting weaker than expected
operating income. It's also trailing the
sales growth of its cloud rivals,
leaving investors wondering whether its
huge investments in AI are actually
paying off. CEO Andy Jasse said it's
very early days in AI and that the
company's efforts to lower the costs
will draw more customers over time. And
that should be my brief. Lisa, thank you
so much, Lizzie. Coming up next, we're
going to be talking about reshaping
global trade.
>> We have made a few deals today that are
excellent deals for the country. You
know, we're taking in literally
trillions of dollars for the country.
They have to pay a fair rate. That's
all. It's very simple. All we want is
fairness for our country.
>> Scott Lindome of the KO Institute coming
up next. And later we will be catching
up with US Trade Representative Jameson
Greer. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
A softer tone to end the week. Uh three
days of losses if this holds. Right now
we're seeing futures near session lows.
We'll come back as we do parse through a
slew of information. NASDAQ futures down
1.1%. Russell 2000 really interesting
this week. Down one and a half% this
morning and futures just simply as we
gauge what exactly the strength in the
economy is. What kind of hit could come
from this? Under surveillance this
morning reshaping global trade.
>> We have made a few deals today that are
excellent deals for the country. You
know, we're taking in literally
trillions of dollars for the country.
This is making our country very rich and
uh respected again. One year ago, we
were a dead country. Now, we're the
hottest country in the world. They have
to pay a fair rate. That's all. It's
very simple. All we want is fairness for
our country.
>> Here's the latest. President Trump
announcing a slew of new tariffs set to
take effect on August 7th. Bloomberg's
Jack Fitzpatrick joins us now from
Washington. Jack, some of the
highlights. How much of this is part of
an ongoing negotiation?
>> It seems like that's a significant
aspect in this. When you look at some
specific anecdotal points on what came
out yesterday, it does seem that there's
evidence that, you know, there's there's
criticism that some of these numbers are
arbitrary. I'd say it points more toward
the political strategy of Donald Trump
and the geopolitical strategy of Donald
Trump. when you look at particularly
high numbers for some goods from Canada
where he was frustrated about the flow
of fentanyl over the northern border uh
the high rates for India the high rates
for South Africa and Brazil uh it's not
just a static moment where the president
sets rates and says on the merits these
are absolutely my numbers uh President
Trump likes to be the person who people
come to seeking a a deal. So, while this
is a big step toward understanding where
he places countries and where he wants
the tariff rates, uh it does not seem
like we're anywhere close to the end of
negotiations with plenty of countries
around the world because that's the way
President Trump works.
>> Jack Fpatrick, thank you so much for
that. Bloomberg's Jack Fispatrick will
be joining us later in the hour. Joining
us now is Scott Lindicum of the KO
Institute. Scott, we got a lot of
numbers overnight. We're still parsing
through them. and we're still trying to
figure out how many of them are actually
going to stick. When clients call you up
this morning, what are you going to tell
them?
>> Uh that I don't know the answer to when
it's all going to end. And I think
that's the problem. Um if you have
perpetual negotiations,
uh uncertainty prevails. Uh regardless
of what the numbers on the paper say, um
as of today, we now have dozens of new
tariff rates. But uh as just mentioned,
maybe those are just negotiating
positions. Maybe they're going to change
within the next week, but then maybe
they change again in the next month. And
that's a really, really difficult
environment for globally connected
companies, multinational supply chains,
and particularly small businesses with
one supplier trying to figure out their
orders for next year. That's a really
tough spot to be in. And so I think the
continuing narrative throughout the fall
is going to be trade policy uncertainty
and of course much higher US tariffs on
average than we've seen in a 100 years.
>> Scott, when you look at the markets
though, it does look like they view
these next seven days as negotiations
to be ongoing with a number of trading
partners. Is that what you are telling
clients? Because the market certainly
thinks so. Well, I I I certainly think
that in the case of a few of these
countries where there were reports that
deals were very close, Switzerland, I
think, being a good example, I think
there is the the the chance that those
are going to change in the next few days
and that these uh rather absurdly high
tariffs are are going to come down a
little bit. Um but at the same time, you
know, that's good for markets. it
doesn't do a lot for the actual
businesses operating in these
environments. Uh you are not, you know,
uh taking comfort that maybe the rate's
going to change when you're trying to to
plan a business. And so uh and at the
end of the day, uh you know, going from
39% to 25%
uh is cold comfort for a business uh
that's going to be eating that cost or
trying to figure out if they can pass it
on to their customers here in the United
States. We still have federal courts
though deciding whether or not these
emergency tariffs using IEPa are even
legal. What happens if the courts say
this is all illegal?
>> Yeah, that's the other big uncertainty
issue right now. Um these trade deals
are all under the international
emergency economic powers act which is
being litigated at the federal circuit
and elsewhere in the United States right
now. oral arguments yesterday went very
well for the plaintiffs, meaning uh that
that they're optimistic this law or the
tariffs themselves could be shot down.
Uh if the Supreme Court agrees with that
on an expedited basis, all of this stuff
could go away this fall. And
importantly, all the trillions of
dollars that President Trump brags about
coming into the government might need to
be refunded to importers over the months
that follow. So, a lot of uncertainty
there, too. A lot of uncertainty just
everywhere. Scott, also in the executive
auditor last night, it made clear that
this is a White House that plans on
continuous monitoring of the trade
partners for any violations. What is
your understanding, TZ, what the bar
would even be for a violation and what
the reaction might be from the White
House if it deems it so? Yeah. And I
think that's the the other big story of
the fall is compliance because you're
now talking about we went from a US
trade system that was really simple.
There was one rate for most of the
world. You didn't care exactly where a
product came from or what it what it
contained. And now you have dozens of
tariff rates for dozens of different
countries. You have to worry about the
metals content. You have to worry about
it as Chinese content. Um, and if you
mess that up, you might get a be getting
a call from the Department of Justice or
the Customs Department. Uh, or if you're
a country and your trade balance doesn't
suddenly change, you might be back
negotiating with an angry President
Trump and a higher tariff rate. So, all
of those compliance issues, those are
another cost for business and it's
another thing governments are going to
have to deal with for the the next long
while.
>> Well, it speaks to things like the trans
shipment of understanding how many parts
come from China and whether that's
changed. Scott, do we even have the
tools? Does Global Business have the
tools to accurately track and analyze
where these different products are
coming from and what rates will apply to
them?
>> Well, yes and no. So, simple products,
yes, you can track those things. uh you
only have one supplier, it only has a
few parts, but really complex things
like aircraft and autos and um where
there are three tiers of suppliers,
thousands of in uh different companies
in the supply chain from all over the
world, accurately tracking that stuff,
accurately determining the aluminum
content or how much comes from China,
particularly given how much intermediate
goods China exports to the world. That's
a herculean effort. something I did back
in the in my old job uh for for pretty
simple products like washing machines.
Uh and even that was what was was pretty
darn difficult doing this for complex
manufacturers. Man, good luck.
>> Just real quick, Scott, why do you think
a lot of market participants are
shrugging this off as less relevant than
they might have believed it on April
2nd?
>> Yeah, I think two things are. One,
expectations. A lot of this is now baked
in. You know, back in April, I just
don't think many uh big investors
thought we would ever get these big
global reciprocal tariffs. So, part of
the shock in April was simply a big
surprise. That's now been baked in. But
the other big thing is we always have to
remember the United States is a massive
$30 trillion services economy, uh mainly
driven by companies that aren't directly
affected by goods imports. So, you can
do a lot of damage in the in the goods
import sector uh without causing the S&P
to crash or whatever. Now, that doesn't
mean it's not going to be painful for a
lot of companies and particularly
smaller ones, but it doesn't mean that
you're you're going to have a crash or
even a recession. It just means you're
going to grow a little slower, you're
going to be a little poorer, prices are
going to be a little higher. Um, so
that's not good, but it it doesn't mean
Armageddon.
>> Scott Linds of the KO Institute, thank
you so much for being with us this
morning. may have a great weekend and
there is this feeling that a lot of
people are looking to the underlying
strength of the economy Danny and that's
the reason why the jobs report becomes
so important
>> right and if there already are cracks
and maybe lay on top of that some of the
tariffness does it become something that
the Fed needs to deal with and then the
whole conversation changes
>> did you just say tariffness
>> tariffness sorry I invented a new word
it's a Friday sorry I think I like that
it's sort of this new adjective coming
up Tom Forte of Maxim Group on a tale of
two earnings reports from big back.
[Music]
Two hours away from the jobs report.
Stocks taking a little bit of a breather
after seeing for the Nasdaq in
particular 14 record highs in the month
of July. Today, the NASDAQ futures are
lower by 1.1%. S&P futures uh near
session lows around that 1% decline.
Russell 2000 actually taking it a little
bit more on the chin. the one-two punch
from possibly disproportionate damage
from the tariffs that have been
announced as well as the Fed and what
the Fed does after they get those data
uh at 8:30 a.m. Eastern. Meanwhile, when
you take a look at the bond space, you
do see yields just creeping a little bit
higher the long end. Yesterday, it did
seem like we got better than expected
data on the jobs front. Jobless claims
came in better than expected. We also
saw a little bit of resilient
inflationary pressure. all focused very
much on what happens in 2 hours. 30-year
yields have bled higher over the past
month by almost 20 basis points, 4.93%.
And if you bleed it through the currency
space, this to me is really compelling.
The best month for the dollar going back
to 2022, how much is a pain trade? How
much is something continuing today? We
are seeing ongoing dollar strength, but
just marginally 114 on the euro versus
the dollar. Three hours from the cash
open. Here are your morning movers with
Danny Burgerer around the desk with us.
Danny, what you looking at?
>> Well, it has to be big tech, right?
Apple is the one that's doing better
this session. Not by a huge amount, 1.7%
in the pre-market. Its fastest quarterly
revenue growth in more than 3 years.
Easily tops estimates also outperforms
in China. A real bright spot. A lot of
positivity on the call about AI
improvements and lack of pull forward
because of tariffs. Meanwhile, Amazon to
the downside basically just not growing
as fast enough as its rival. Sure, you
can beat, but if you're not putting up
numbers near 40% for your cloud growth,
like we saw from Microsoft, this is what
happens. Just a 17% growth for AWS,
leaving investors saying, "Hey, is it
worth it?" The big spend you're doing.
Meanwhile, Coinbase down 11% weaker
trading volumes. There was a drop in
current uh in uh volatility for crypto,
if you can believe it. Uh so that's why
those earnings suffered down 11%.
>> Yeah, when it's just uh off and to the
right, you just don't have that much
volatility. It's just one direction.
honorator this morning. We will be
getting more back to the tech story, but
President Trump announcing sweeping new
tariff rates on dozens of US trading
partners. The tariffs range from a 10%
baseline to as high as 41%.
The move raising the average tariff rate
of to over 15% which is six times higher
than a year ago. Raising questions on
will this stick Emory?
>> That's the big question. Are these going
to stick for countries like India, for
countries like Switzerland, for
countries like Taiwan, which all these
trading partners were in negotiations
with Secretary Bman, Commerce Secretary
Howard Lutnick, and Ambassador Greer,
who we're going to be speaking with. And
the fact that they gave this wiggle room
of 7 days, now the new deadline
potentially for some of these countries
is August 7th, is the final moments
potentially of concessions we are going
to see from some of these countries. And
when you look at concessions we've
already seen, remember when the European
Union was ready to sign a deal at 10%?
Well, then Trump was able to get 15% in
terms of the baseline tariff when it
comes to the EU. Is he trying to do that
sort of negotiation with a number of
these countries?
>> There was another story yesterday and
you hinted at this in our conversation
with Scott Lindse about the appeals
court, the federal court, a panel of 11
judges that heard arguments from the
government about the legality of using
AIPA in order to execute this type of
tariff. And there was massive skepticism
by those judges. How realistic is it
that this gets overturned entirely and
kind of upsets the apple cart when it
comes to these negotiations?
>> Well, potentially because legal experts
are talking about how this is the
purview when it comes to AIPA for
Congress, not the executive branch. The
other thing I would note though, even if
the courts come down and say you cannot
use AIPA, when you're looking at a bunch
of these tariff rates, the president
still has under his discretion using USR
or the Commerce Department a number a
host of different orders he can do.
whether it's a 232 section sectoral
tariff to go after some of these
countries and trading partners. So even
if IO they were to come out and say this
is illegal, there are other ways the
president can enact his tariff agenda.
>> Meanwhile, uh global credit spreads
tightening to their lowest level since
2007. Add that to some of the record
highs that we've seen in big tech
strategists at Goldman Sachs urging
caution and warning against complacency.
They were talking about credit spreads,
but you see this from Michael Hart and
also from Bank of America saying that
there could be a bubble particularly in
big tech with valuations having risen so
far. But part of what that's done is
created this really interesting market
dynamic. I mean, IG corporate bonds have
had higher total returns and lower
volatility than treasuries. You look at
something like a Microsoft, it's now
rated more highly than US government
debt and has a huge cash output. It's
making a lot of people really question
long hollowed assumptions about what's a
safe asset. But when you do that, you
pile into some of these assets. You pile
into credit. And again, as Sebastian was
saying from Troll Price, does that make
you more vulnerable to shocks? The
fundamentals can be okay, but if
something upsets you, are you just
illpositioned for that? And you know to
that point there was a really compelling
story about TSMC the Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Company and
that the ADRs in the United States are
trading at an unprecedented premium at a
higher level than what you see in the
mainland of Taiwan. And how much of this
is because in the United States it's
tariffs uh are on the sidelines. It's
big tech to the moon and that's what you
see in the valuations. It's what you see
in the valuations, but then what happens
when you get someone like an Amazon this
morning who disappoints again beats but
disappoints if that can be a thing. The
bar still is really high to meet some of
these some of these prices that are
being traded right now.
>> Yeah, we're going to get to the big tech
story in just one second. Just crossing
moments ago, President Trump truthing uh
this morning about Jay Powell, Jerome
Powell saying this. Jerome too late.
Powell, a stubborn must
substantially lower interest rates now.
If he continues to refuse, the board
should assume control and do what
everyone knows has to be done. So,
continuing that job owning of the Fed
official coming right before we get jobs
numbers. He's seen the number. How much
does this sort of indicate something
going on?
>> What stands out for me here is the line
the board should assume control. It
comes after for the first time more than
three decades, we have these double
denters at the Fed coming out and saying
actually we see the economy different
than the chair sees and we think there
should be cuts immediately. And of
course I'm talking about Michelle Bowman
and Christopher Waller. So I think that
is what's interesting. Now the president
is once again yes attacking the chair
but he's recognizing that is a
deliberative body and now he's calling
into question the board saying the board
should assume control. I mean, everyone
gets a vote, but basically putting more
pressure, I think, on other members of
the FOMC.
>> Yeah. And hearing from Scott Bessant
yesterday that they do plan on
announcing someone later this year in
terms of a possible replacement to Fed
chair Jay Powell. Watch the space. We'll
talk about it more coming up. But back
to earnings, Apple reporting its best
quarter in over three years as iPhone
demand picked up worldwide, including in
China. Amazon shares, meanwhile, falling
after reporting the tech giant uh
underwhelming cloud growth. Joining us
now is Tom Forte of the Maxim Group.
Tom, how bad really was Amazon versus
just not absolutely moonshot blowing out
expectations like some of the other tech
giants?
>> Yes. So, I definitely think that Amazon
was a victim of expectations. Had the
company reported before Microsoft
instead of after, we might be talking
differently without downplaying investor
concerns about the competitive landscape
in cloud computing and artificial
intelligence. But I do see the market's
reaction to Amazon as more a reflection
of high expectations than poor
performance. Sales and profits were
better for the quarter and if you look
at the ranges for the outlook for next
quarter, they were better as well. So
Tom, before we get to Apple, there is
this issue of what the constraint is for
Amazon's AWS, their cloud computing
unit, which has really been their main
profitability driver. Is it just
capacity? Is it that they can't build
out quickly enough to meet demand or is
it that they are losing share that they
don't have the same kind of AI
advancement that say uh the Google's and
the Microsofts have?
>> Yeah. So I would argue that it's more
about capacity. So, Microsoft is working
closely with OpenAI. Amazon's working
closely with Anthropic. Amazon is the
market leader as far as market share. Uh
Google to their credit and Microsoft to
its credit are growing at faster rates
off smaller bases. But I would argue
that of those choices, it's more about
capacity than necessary market share.
>> Tom, how do you understand whether we
reward these companies or punish them
for the capital expenditures that
they're doing? Is there a hint of that
in Amazon that they're spending too much
to justify what isn't as strong growth
as the other mag 7 and big hyperscalers?
>> Yes. So, I think the beauty of Andy
Jasse as CEO versus Jeff Bezos is Andy's
found a way for the company to continue
to generate strong profits and free cash
flow and invest. So, I think that if we
were talking about a Jeff Bezos led
Amazon, there would be kind of es and
flows of investment spending. Andy has
figured out a way to unlock uh sustained
profitability even with heightened
investment and I think Amazon both under
Bezos and under Jasse has investors
trust that the investments will
ultimately pay off including for
artificial intelligence.
>> And then there was Apple Tom and one of
the more interesting things that Tim
Cook said on the call was that he thinks
only one percentage point of the 10%age
growth in revenue was due to a pull
forward effect. Tom, is that even
measurable? How much faith do you put in
that number?
>> Yeah, so they looked at their sales
trends in April as it pertained to
iPhones and Macs and discerned that
consumers hearing all the chatter on
tariffs uh bought ahead of concerns that
tariffs would raise the prices of those
product and as you pointed out it
contributed to about 100 basis points of
growth on a 10 percentage point growth.
So I think that pull forward was a
factor. Uh the concerning thing to me in
Apple's results is that they're
acknowledging that they're behind on
artificial intelligence. The good news
is they're taking action. They're
raising their capbacks, which is much
more modest versus Amazon. And they even
hinted at strategic M&A, which I thought
was highly unusual for Apple.
>> Is it a little too late though when it
comes to what Apple's doing in terms of
AI given the fact that we see Meta
basically go in, take their top talent,
and leave Apple still struggling? Yeah,
I think I don't know that I would say
it's too late. It's definitely late. So,
the good news is now we know that we
should expect an elevated uh Siri next
year enhanced by artificial
intelligence. That was a question mark
even into the developers conference
recently. Uh I think Apple has shown a
consistent ability to play catch-up.
They're not always first, but they're
best. Maybe they won't be the best in
AI, but certainly they could be better
than what they are today. Does this show
you the fact that Apple is saying that
potentially it's going to have to look
elsewhere for AI that they're just
changing their strategy for a company
that we know loves to build in-house?
>> I think they're saying that everything's
on the table. So, I don't think they're
saying, "Hey, we're going to lean into
strategic M&A unlike we've done in the
past." I think that they're going to
pull every lever they can to materially
enhance the artificial intelligence
experience on their products. That's
that's how I view that statement.
>> Tom 40, this past week has been about
American exceptionalism driven by big
tech, and we've certain certainly seen
some blockbuster results. We're
quibbling with the details about Amazon,
but still a pretty solid set of numbers.
And I just wonder when you have the
likes of Michael Hartnett over at Bank
of America talking about a bubble in
tech stocks, an evaluation that just
seems to have gotten over the skis even
of all of the optimism that you saw in
the earnings. What's your response?
Yeah. So if you looked at the peer set
for Apple, uh the PE went to about 35
times from closer to 28 times between
last quarter and this quarter. So I
think there's a lot of high expectations
in big tech that they're going to land
the plane or however you want to think
about it when it comes to both tariffs,
AI investment, and getting a return on
that AI investment. So, as a longtime
follower of the industry going back to
96, having survived the dot bubble, I do
think that there's a lot of high
expectations and it's reflected in the
big PE multiples you're seeing in big
tech.
>> Tom Forte of Maxim Group, thank you so
much for that. Really appreciate your
insights. Right now, let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your Bloomberg brief.
Let's head over to London with Lizzie
Burton. Lizzy,
>> hi Lisa. President Trump is escalating
his campaign to pressure pharmaceutical
companies to lower drug prices. In
letters sent to the world's 17 largest
drug makers, Trump insisted that the
companies immediately lower what they
charge Medicaid for existing drugs. He
also asked them to guarantee that future
medicines be launched and remain at
prices on par with what they cost
overseas. Elsewhere, Chevron delivered
better than expected results and raise
its cash flow outlook after boosting oil
production to a record. Adjusted second
quarter profit came in at $1.77 a share.
That's 6 cents higher than the median
forecast. However, the company warned
that crude prices are in danger of
falling this year due to supply
increases from OPEC and its allies. And
billionaire Elon Musk donated over $45
billion to his super PAC in the first
six months of this year. The new
donations put Musk among the top
political donors in the US. The filings
show that despite his public feud with
President Donald Trump, he continued to
give to super PACs benefiting Republican
majorities both in the House and the
Senate. And that's your blue brief.
Lisa, thank you so much, Lizzie. Up
next, we'll be counting you down to the
payrolls report.
>> If you look at the bigger picture data,
the best indicators of the balance
between supply and demand in the labor
market are the unemployment rate and the
vacancies to unemployed workers. And
both of those have been flat for a year
even though job growth has been somewhat
tapping.
>> Michael Pisci of Wells Fargo joining us
next as we do count you down to that
payrolls report at a time where we found
out from this week that Jay Powell looks
at the unemployment rate as the most
important economic indicator. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]
1 hour and 43 minutes until the jobs
report. Right now in markets, a little
bit of softness in futures as we look to
some of those earnings reports in
question. Just have elevations gotten a
little high, particularly in the big
tech sphere. S&P futures lower by 1.1%.
near record near session lows as we uh
blow off a pretty a darn good uh week
and month ahead. Meanwhile, people
looking at what's going on in the
currency space. Dollar experiencing its
biggest one-month rally going back to
2022. Building on that just a touch
today, 114 versus the euro and yields
just climbing a touch ahead of that
payrolls report with a real question
about just how much strength it will
show given the data that we've gotten so
far this week. under surveillance this
morning counting down to that jobs
report.
>> Job growth is slowing down. If you look
at the bigger picture data, the best
indicators of the balance between supply
and demand in the labor market are the
unemployment rate and the vacancies to
unemployed workers and both of those
have been flat for a year even though
job growth has been somewhat tid. You
could see a bigger slowdown starting
even in the next jobs report.
>> Here's the latest. Investors counting
down to July payrolls in less than two
hours time. Bloomberg survey median
asked estimate coming in at 104,000.
Michael Puglesi of Wells Fargo joining
us now. And before we get to the jobs
estimates, I wanted to get gauge your
opinion of how much weakness there
really is under the hood. We got another
truth social post from President Trump
this morning where he called on Fed
officials to overrule Jerome Powell,
saying that too late, Powell, a stubborn
must substantially lower interest
rates. Now, if he continues to refuse,
the board should assume control and do
what everyone knows has to be done.
Michael, I'm just wondering, do you
think that this economy requires a rate
cut based on some of the cracks that
some people have pointed to in the labor
market?
>> Well, good morning. And and no, I don't
think so. I don't think the Fed is there
yet. When you look at the labor market
data, there's certainly some stuff to be
concerned about, right? breadth of
hiring has been pretty narrow over the
past few months. Consumer sentiment on
the labor market when you look at things
like the percent of people saying jobs
are plentiful verse jobs are hard to get
has deteriorated. But generally
thinking, generally speaking, I think
that there are a lot of signs the labor
market has stabilized this year. The
unemployment rate was 4.1% in December.
It's 4.1% today. You look at jobless
claims, jolts, ECI, all of them pointing
to, I think, some stabilization in the
labor market. And meanwhile on the
inflation side, you're sitting at 2.8%
on the core PC deflator. Probably some
upside risk from here because of the
tariffs. And so no, I I I think there's
a case to be made that the Fed needs to
be nimble going forward and ready to cut
rates in case there's a deterioration in
today's data or in future months, but
probably not yet. I don't think it was
necessary at this meeting. Yesterday,
David Se of Neora was on with John and
Lisa, and he was talking about now that
we have these two dissenters, a more
willingness to see governors descent on
the board, it's going to bring an end of
decades of de facto Fed dictatorship by
the chair. Do you agree with that? Are
we potentially entering a more
deliberative and debate amongst the Fed
when it comes to rate decision and
monetary policy?
>> No, I don't think so. I mean, I think
the chair is of course the most
important member of the FOMC. They're
always going to carry the most weight,
but you know, as I've watched Chair Pal
over the past seven years, I think
consensus building has been one of his
greatest skills when it comes to trying
to trade off between board members,
regional Fed presidents who at different
points in the cycle have had different
opinions. And we've seen that many times
back to 2018, 2019 when the Fed was
under some pressure to cut rates during
the pandemic, the initial takeoff, last
fall's cuts. And I think the chair's job
in some ways is trying to build that
consensus across, you know, 19 different
members who all have very different
views sometimes, particularly when
you're at a key inflection point in
monetary policy or in a moment like now
where the dual mandate is a little bit
in tension between downside risk to
labor market and upside risk to
inflation.
>> Well, Chair Powell told us what he's
looking at today. He said the main
number you have to look at right now is
the unemployment rate. If that's the
determinant of monetary policy, what in
the data is he seeing that he thinks
that's the main number we should all
have our eyes peeled at 8:30,
>> right? So, when you think about the
employment report, traditionally you
think of the NFP number, right? And you
see that slowing down, that can be a
worrisome sign. But what I think that
the Fed, and I certainly agree with
this, is trying to figure out right now
is how much of a slowdown in non-farm
payroll growth is because of a slowdown
in labor supply. Obviously, as you've as
you've seen a lot less immigration into
the United States over the past six to
12 months. So, to some extent, you would
expect job growth to be slowing in 2025
because of that supply demand dynamic.
But that does not necessarily mean that
demand and supply are getting out of
balance. Whereas the unemployment rate,
while not perfect in terms of measuring
that, should come a lot closer to
telling you how are labor supply and
labor demand in balance. And so far so
good this year. And I think that's been
corroborated by initial jobless claims,
continuing claims, and some other data
like that.
>> Hey, Michael, if I can just go back to
one thing you said about Powell being
the consensus builder, and we continue
to see that. I'm kind of struggling to
see where the consensus was in this last
Fed report. He didn't really seem to
include at all the two dissents into his
viewpoint of going forward, even going
so far as to say, "Hey, we are looking
at tariffs. We are looking through
tariffs because we're not talking about
hiking." Is there a risk that there
could be some real concerns, but it's
being brushed off by the chair and many
market participants as just political?
>> No. When I go back and and and and
listen to what Cher Pal was saying, he
talked about downside risk to the labor
market quite a bit, right? And in fact,
it was a year ago pretty much today
where the Fed had a very similar
dynamic. They had not cut rates yet.
They met in July. they decided to sit on
hold and then they got a couple weaker
labor market readings and what did they
do? They've reacted to that. And so if
that's what happens, let's say today we
get a much weaker reading, unemployment
rate rises, we come back in a month, it
tells a similar story, then it would not
surprise me at all to see that nimleness
from Chair Pal and the the rest of the
committee who did not want to cut rates
to see them initiate a rate cut in
September. I mean, bear in mind the June
SCP, which is now, you know, about 6
weeks old, it did still signal two rate
cuts by the end of this year, but that
was conditional on an unemployment rate
rising to about 4 a.5% or so. And so, if
it stays flat, and I think that the the
median on the committee, at least my
guess would be, they're not going to be
quite there yet uh in the near future.
>> How much more difficult is it going to
get to understand where this labor
market is going, Michael? On one hand,
you have the labor force particip
participation. You have a shrinking
force, but might be hard to gauge
depending on just how robust some of
these surveys are and people's
willingness to answer the surveys. And
on the other hand, you have things like
the challengers job report talking about
tech being the bulk of layoffs that
we've seen. How difficult with these big
macro trends coming in, is it going to
be to gauge a real shift in this labor
market?
>> Yeah, it's really hard, right? I mean
that is just the challenge of economic
data generally even in good times even
when the economy is not volatile even
when there's not big policy challenges
or issues with data collection I mean
consider how in real time we're
attempting to measure the total number
of employment the total amount of
employment in the United States for July
and it's it's the morning of August 1st
right I mean that's very real time data
and I think some of those challenges
what they do it's not that it makes the
data more accur less accurate it just
creates more volatility more noise a
little more suscept susceptibility to
revisions and I think what it requires
is just trying to take the totality of
the data right so for example we talked
about the unemployment rate I think
that's 1A today when thinking about it
but you want to look at other things you
want to look under the hood at the
breath of hiring you want to look at you
know the prime age employment population
ratio we want to look at jobless claims
and jolt and all these data and try to
take that totality of it and form an
opinion on where are we at right now
with this labor market in the cycle
>> it's August 1st I have to keep reminding
myself that Michael Plesi of Wells
Fargo, thank you so much. The totality
of data has turned into a whisper
number, I believe, of 120 and a range
potentially of zero to what 170. I mean,
really reasonable people can look at
this market and come up with two
different ideas of where we are. I have
to say a whisper number being a little
bit more strong is something we haven't
seen in a while. So, I think it's this
continued expectation that we are
resilient, that the numbers will show up
strong. Hopefully that won't break. But
what happens if it does with stocks at
all-time highs and credit spreads at the
tightest since 2007?
>> Yeah. And what does it mean to break?
Coming up next, Pria Misra of JP Morgan,
former senior White House trade adviser
Kellyanne Shaw, Aries Management Chief
Executive Officer, uh, Mike Aragetti,
and Sarah Wolf of Morgan Stanley as we
count you down to that jobs report in a
very busy morning.
We're in a bull market. I like the fact
Eco S&P is getting involved with tech.
Tech is helping the stock market quite a
lot.
>> If you look at what's driving markets,
the Mag 7 are driving about 1/3 of
overall market action. The market is
pricing in some idea that you you are
going to get that broadening of the AI
benefits. Clearly the companies that are
succeeding in the markets today and and
seeing investor dollars flow into them
are those that have a clear AI strategy.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance and to the start of a new
month. Starting that new month, that new
week with a new slew of tariff rates and
possibly a new deadline causing some
turbulence in stocks that have already
gotten to pretty high valuations ahead
of a key labor figure coming out in 90
minutes time this morning. We are seeing
a little bit of a softness in futures.
As markets turn ahead of that key
payrolls report, you could see the
weakness really accentuated in the
Russell 2000, but also in big tech.
NASDAQ futures lower by 1.3% after I
guess a disappointment maybe just not
hurdling that high bar high highly
enough from the likes of Amazon.
Meanwhile in the bond space a real sense
that there is enough resilience in this
labor market to prevent the Fed from
cutting rates. You can see yields higher
across the long end front end a little
bit softer as you do get job owning from
the Fed. And you bleed this through what
we're seeing in the currency space. It
has been a riparing month the month of
July for the dollar with the strongest
performance going back to 2022 sort of
continuing that today but just really
just fluctuating there. The euro kind of
going nowhere versus the dollar 114.
Meanwhile, we're seeing today is this
question of what is a deadline and Marie
is August 7th the new deadline? Well,
it's self-imposed. So deadlines can
definitely move especially if they're
self-imposed and we've seen the story
before with the Trump administration
with these deadlines. They are fluid. So
now with this executive order coming
out, this statement, I'm looking at the
fact sheet now. They're saying that in 7
days on August 7th, basically that is
when these rates you're seeing on your
screen right now will come into place.
And everyone's been talking about
Switzerland because the rate now is even
higher than it was in April 2nd. April
2nd was that shock and awe. The market
seems to be digesting this a little bit
more. But what we have in place is what
the president promised on the campaign
trail. 10% baseline tariff around the
United States, 15% or higher on certain
trading partners. key is in this fact
sheet. Several countries have agreed to
or on the verge of agreeing to
meaningful trade deals, which is why
everyone thinks we are still in
negotiating mode when it comes to this
White House.
>> And Danny, I'm really struck by the fact
that we are seeing some softness in
equities. But it seems more attributed
to just where we're coming from than say
some of these announcement. And it
raises this question as we were talking
to Sebastian Paige. How much do tariffs
actually affect stock valuations given
how dependent this economy is on
services? Well, they affect you if
you're Ford, but Ford is much smaller
than, for example, an Amazon or a
Microsoft. But the thing is is so much
of the confidence of this market had
been built up around this idea that
Trump chickens out. I don't know how we
look at yesterday and still have that
narrative and still have that idea that
Trump is going to back off at things cuz
it is clear he is not. I think Terry
Haynes put it well that this is not a
trade war. It is war with trade being
used as a tool. Trump is not afraid to
put these tariffs on. Perhaps more what
we're trading on is that other countries
will chickenen out. This idea that other
people will back off and get us to a
lower rate and potentially the other
companies will struggle more with these
tariff rates than the United States. And
that's why it is important to look at
the actual data coming out and really
highlights July's non-farm payrolls
number expected to be somewhere in and
around 104,000 with a higher whisper
number ahead of that. That's the reason
why I found this true social post so
interesting from President Trump this
morning and Marie coming out and saying
maybe the rest of the board should take
control if uh too late Powell doesn't
cut rates. It raises a question. If he
has seen the data, does he not like said
data? Well, I think that's the question,
right? If he's seen the jobs report, is
it a bad number or a good number? He's
saying the board should assume control
and do what everyone knows has to be
done. He's really leaning on the two
dissenters we saw this week coming out.
It already is a deliberative body. The
board already agrees. Um, but once
again, not just John voting the Fed
chair, but also leaning on other members
of the FOMC to maybe come out, voice
their concerns, and be a denterenter.
This is going to be a very important
payroll report. Then we have one more,
and then it's a September rate decision.
And the president this week said, I hear
they're going to cut rates in September.
Well, will they? It depends on this
data. And we are expected to hear more
from the denters in terms of just how
much they are going to lean into
potential weakness in the labor market.
Coming up this hour, Pria of JP Morgan
with stocks extending a three-day losing
streak. Former senior White House trade
adviser Kellyanne Shaw with President
Trump unveiling new global tariff rates
and Sarah Wolf of Morgan Stanley
counting down to payrolls. We begin this
hour with stocks dropping as President
Trump boosts global tariff rates and
investors await US payrolls. Pria Misra
of JP Morgan writing this. I think risk
risk assets are priced to perfection and
ver vulnerable to any further slowdown.
Pria joins us now. Pria, so good to see
you. Thank you for being here. This kind
of piggybacks on what we heard from
Goldman Sachs pointing to global credit
spreads their tightest going back to
2007. Do you think that this is overly
complacent because there is weakness in
the economy or just because they have
gone too far too fast?
>> So I think there's an element of that
valuation point. If you look at risk
premiums across the board, interest rate
wall, credit wall, equity wall, all
extremely low. I think the view is the
economy has been resilient so far. We're
getting certainty. Now, I would argue
the market might be a little complacent
on certainty. We're still in that
negotiation phase. We still don't know
the sectoral tariffs, but I think
there's hope that well, we kind of know
the tariffs and companies can adjust and
so the resilience stays. I think this
soft landing is essentially what's
priced in and then the Fed's going to
cut. when this all starts to shake a
little bit if the economy slows down but
the Fed is nervous around the uh the
inflation risks and that's what we heard
from chap I think the bar for them to
cut it has has actually increased in the
last few months and if the market gets a
whiff of that you're not getting the
rate cuts that you wanted you might have
that stackflation actually show up in
the data I think that's where risk asset
those risk premiums should rise you know
I think credit spreads you have to be
really careful highrade companies I
think with very high, you know, pretty
high operating uh margins can absorb a
lot of this. We just don't know how much
will the margins compress versus how
much do they pass on. And so I think,
you know, you have to do the research
and there sectors we like. We still own
credit spreads. We are though moving up
in quality because I think some
companies are going to struggle. They're
going to struggle to pass it on. Then
they're going to uh that's going to hurt
their margins and then they're going to
have to start laying off. That's when
this thing becomes more than just soft
landing and you start to worry about a
slowdown. So far, the data has been
okay, but I would argue we're operating
under 10% effective tariff rate. Last
night's announcement, what we've seen
over the last few weeks, that's moving
closer to my 20% number. And that's not
a shock value of 20%. We've just sort of
drifted to that 20% number with
uncertainty, I think, still at a fairly
high level that if that weighs on what
companies are doing, what households are
doing, I think that's what worries me
that we haven't we haven't seen the
economic impact of that 20% effective
tariff rate. We've had more than one
person on the show this morning saying
we won't really see that much of impact
though because this is a services-based
economy that goods matter less that in
an overall picture the tariffs something
at 15% isn't going to have an outsized
impact. What would you say to that?
>> So I think there's some element to that.
Absolutely. And that's why business
cycles have been longer as as you know
the the world is effectively moving to a
service economy. Here's the issue with
that. if companies do try and pass on
some of this um you know the the tariffs
real disposable income starts to go
down. So do I cut my service consumption
because I'm going to have to pay more
for the goods that I do need. Yes, my
consumption baskets not 80% goods. But
if I'm paying more for that those goods,
I'm going to cut back on services. Maybe
I cut back on discretionary uh services.
I still have to live somewhere and I
have to pay rent. Do I cut back on
vacation spending? So I do worry that
the consumer unless wages start to pick
up. That's the key. So beyond the
unemployment rate that we're absolutely
going to watch today, I think more than
the payroll number, it's that wages are
we see we're seeing absolutely no signs
of wage pressure. That would make me a
little more comfortable that consumers
may be able to continue to spend on
services. But if wages continue to be
around here, which is our sense from the
quits rate, not just from the labor from
the uh the payroll report, but across
the board, we're seeing a low higher low
fire market. Um you know, I think in
that case, consumers start to cut back
on other things. They're already real
personal consumption expenditures the
first half of this year 1%. What was
that number in the second half of last
year? 3%. So there has been already a
reduction. If that continues, I think
then it's going to spill over. I'm not
talking about a recession but you have
to worry about does growth get closer to
zero from that you know subtrend 1 and a
half to 2% rate and I think that in my
mind is not priced into risk assets to
our earlier discussion it's also not
priced into rates so I think owning some
duration here makes a lot of sense
>> what would that look like if it was
priced in how should we be trading if we
are to incorporate that
>> so I think it depends on how much are we
slowing if you're just slowing to the
unemployment rate at four and a half or
five the Fed can get close to neutral.
Now what is neutral? We need a lot more
time to debate that and I think there's
a wide range of views, you know, three
to three and a half. So that's a 10 year
closer to 4%. If you're telling me this
is actually slowing to the point where
the Fed has to get into accommodative
territory. They're cutting what the
president actually is asking for them to
cut. I don't think we're getting there.
But if the data supports it, at that
point you're looking at much further uh
declines in in rates, that is a tail
risk scenario. It's not our base case,
but we're thinking the 10 year should be
closer to four or a little below four
rather than this 4 and a half level. So,
I think that's where you've got that
value of hedge. We're not seeing that
sell America trade. That was a big
concern. I think the last time I was on
I was saying I don't know about
correlations. Correlations are back. The
Fed's telling you they'll react. We know
the reaction function. It's the economic
outlook that's extremely uncertain.
>> The president says the board should
assume control if JPAL won't cut rates.
We know it's a deliberative body, but do
you expect more dissenters?
>> You know, I think if the dual mandate
gets more intention, so if you get the
inflation numbers ticking up higher as
service inflation doesn't fully offset
goods inflation and the unemployment
rate starts to rise, I think it's quite
possible we get dissents, but I think
it's not necessarily political. I think
there's a narrative that the dissents
were all political, that there's they're
all just trying to audition for the next
Fed chair. I think there's legitimately
there's an economic debate here that is
the unemployment rate if there's tension
between the two which which side of the
mandate you give more importance to. So
I would expect yes if the stagflationary
shock that 20% effective tariff rate is
what we're living with I think you'll
see more descents unless the data tells
the Fed clearly if it's a slow grind to
a rise in the unemployment rate and
inflation picks up I think you'll see
more desense for good reason and that's
what the Fed should be doing. It's a
committee. They should debate it and
then maybe they start to cut but not
commit to a cutting cycle because they
can just start the process and the end
point might be more open.
>> What's the pain trade today after we get
this data? If the data is too hot or if
it's too cold.
>> I think it's well the too cold I don't
know because at that point the market
might say oh the Fed's going to cut.
What if you get a 50,000 on payrolls and
a 4.2? the Fed's going to say, "Okay,
the the the growth in jobs is slowing,
but so is the labor supply." And that's
worrying because that means things are
slowing down, but you're not getting
those rate cuts. I suspect a lot more
truth socials posts on that. Maybe more
descents. So, that's one. And then
inflation, you get a pick up in
inflation in two weeks time, that's
another form of pain trade where every
market's going to say, "Okay, maybe now
we're seeing the economic impacts of
that 20% tariff." I can guarantee that
whatever happens, we will be getting
more truth social posts. Pri Misra of JP
Morgan. Wonderful to get your thoughts.
Thank you so much. Right now, let's get
you an update on stories elsewhere. Here
is your Bloomberg brief with Lizzie
Burton. Lizzie, hey Lisa, President
Trump unleashed his latest round of
tariff announcements just hours before
his August 1st deadline. Most countries
are facing a baseline 10% tariff rate,
but Trump slapped 35% tariffs on
Canadian goods not covered under the
USMCA. The new tariffs will take effect
August 7th to give US Customs and Border
Protection time to prepare. Elsewhere,
Exxon reporting second quarter earnings
that beat analyst estimates, robust oil
production from the Perian Basin and
Guyana cushions the impact of lower
crude prices. Exxon sees continued
growth and plans to quote create value
through acquisitions. And the end of an
era, Ray Dalio has sold the last
remaining stake of his in Bridgewater
Associates and left the hedge funds
board. Dalio first announced his
succession plan more than a decade ago,
but didn't fully hand over the reigns
until 2022 when he transferred his
voting rights to its board of directors
and stepped down as one of its three
co-chief investment officers. Dalio
founded the firm back in 1975. And that
should be my brief, Lisa. Thank you so
much, Lizzie. Up next, reshaping global
trade.
>> We have made a few deals today that are
excellent deals for the country. You
know, we're taking in literally
trillions of dollars for the country.
They have to pay a fair rate. That's
all. It's very simple. All we want is
fairness for our country.
>> Joining us next will be former senior
White House trade adviser Kellyanne Shaw
to translate. And next hour, we'll be
speaking with US Trade Representative
Jameson Greer, fresh off navigating all
of these trade conversations with some
insight there. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
[Music]
An hour and 14 minutes until that key
payrolls report. Right now, we are still
reeling from a slew of data, a slew of
tariff numbers, and a slew of earnings
reports from a number of big tech
behemoths. All of that bled through the
markets and you could see a futures
softer down a 1% off some of the lows
earlier this morning. S&P uh meanwhile
just kind of flat in the currency space.
Euro dollar going nowhere 14 after a
blockbuster month. The biggest monthly
gain for the dollar going back to 2022.
Yields grinding just a touch higher as
people try to purse through the
inflationary ramifications plus
potential pressure to cut rates under
surveillance this morning reshaping
global trade.
We have made a few deals today that are
excellent deals for the country. You
know, we're taking in literally
trillions of dollars for the country.
This is making our country very rich and
uh respected again. One year ago, we
were a dead country. Now, we're the
hottest country in the world. They have
to pay a fair rate. That's all. It's
very simple. All we want is fairness for
our country.
>> Here's the latest. President Trump
revealing a new tariff rate set to take
effect on August 7th, or rather many
tariff rates. this boosting the average
US tariff rate to above 15%. Bloomberg's
Jack Fitzpatrick joins us now from
Washington. Jack, it's been tough to
really understand all of the different
rates. They're all over the map. What's
the latest on what we know and how firm
it is?
>> Uh well, we know it's not terribly firm,
or at least that's how it's being
interpreted. Already today, we've seen a
comment uh from the president of Taiwan
saying he thinks that 20% tariff rate is
temporary. Understanding President's
President Trump's uh approach to
negotiations,
uh it is fair to say that there are
going to be more talks. There are going
to be countries coming to him. He really
prefers to have people coming to him
seeking uh if not handouts a better deal
than they've gotten. And of course there
were some surprises uh some negative
surprises when you look at the 39% rate
for Switzerland uh that Swiss officials
took as a surprisingly negative. So
there is certainly an expectation that
there will be more discussions overall.
I'd add to that if you're trying to sus
out how much uncertainty there really is
the skeptical tone from the justices on
an appeals court, a federal appeals
court about Trump's legal ability to do
these tariffs with his emergency powers
adds to the uncertainty. Uh and of
course there's the China question with
the current truce uh running through
August 12th and then perhaps being
extended. So there's a lot of
information there. There's a whole table
of tariff rates, but there's also plenty
of uncertainty and an expectation that
things could change going forward.
>> A new table and possibly a new timeline.
Bloomberg's Jack Fitzpatrick, thank you
so much for uh running through all of
that with us. Joining us now is former
senior White House trade adviser
Kellyanne Shaw. Kellyanne, is the new
deadline August 7th?
>> Good morning. Thanks so much for having
me back on. I think the deadline is
August 1st. Customs really needs about a
7-day period to try to affffectuate some
of these tariff rates, to update the
HTS, to give notice to importers. Like
this buffer is actually just necessary
for logistical reasons. But that said,
there's no real deadline deadline,
meaning countries can come to the
president and request to have a lower
tariff rate either 3 days from now, 3
months from now, or 3 years from now.
now. And the president has said that
he's willing to talk and and to see what
can be done if countries are willing to
either lower their tariff and non-tariff
barriers or invest in the United States,
which is another option that Japan
proved is is on the table.
>> Perpetual negotiation is what it sounds
like. Kellyanne, I'm shocked by
Switzerland. They had a 31% tariff rate
designated April 2nd. Then during the
reprieve, it was 10%. Now they were at
39% when I thought they were on a cusp
of getting a deal. What is going on with
this trading partner?
Yeah, the the number one question I
heard was what happened to Switzerland
as soon as these rates came out and and
to your point, there had been rumors of
a deal that had basically been in hand.
But the way that these negotiations had
been unfolding is that USR, Commerce,
and Treasury were negotiating a package
and then presenting them to the
president for his final seal of
approval. And in many cases that
involved him picking up the phone and
talking to various world leaders to see
is this really your bottom line. And so
it could be that the president had a
similar conversation with his Swiss
counterpart that didn't go particularly
well. But when you look at that 39%
that's almost triple Switzerland's
European cohort. Clearly something went
off the rails. And I do expect that
whatever beef between the US and
Switzerland may have unfolded soon as
that deescalates we'll see that rate
come down. And this is a country that's
in the top five when it comes to foreign
direct investment in the United States.
So for certain countries, are you
viewing August 7th as potentially the
new deadline for a country like
Switzerland?
>> Well, again, I I don't think that
there's really a deadline deadline here
now. I do think that the Swiss are
probably pretty panicked at the moment
about this 39% tariff rate. So, I would
expect that we would see some progress
potentially in the next couple of days
on that deal. Um, but there are a couple
of other deals that the president hinted
at yesterday in those comments. We
haven't seen a deal with Taiwan. We
haven't seen Thailand or Malaysia. There
are other trading partners that have
been in active negotiations and so we
could between now and next week see some
of those deals announced and those
tariff rates slightly adjusted.
Kellyenne, when this conversation first
started earlier this year, one of the
real concerns was that there would be
retaliatory terrorists for various
nations or that various nations would
try to band together to try to get
something or some sort of concession
from the US. That hasn't happened at
all. What do you make of the lack of
reaction from some of these trading
partners and just more concessions?
Yeah, what what's been really
interesting is that we're talking about
tariff rates somewhere between 10 and
25% on average that the US is now
imposing on all of its major trading
partners. That is really a
transformative way to manage the US
economy. We haven't seen tariff rates
like this in almost 100 years. And so
this idea of our trading partners just
accepting those rates has been pretty
interesting to watch. And you saw Ursula
Vanderion over the summit in Scotland
this weekend saying that she accepted
the president's premise that this
relationship between the US and the EU
had been unbalanced and that the EU was
willing to then agree to this 15% tariff
and same for Japan and South Korea. So,
we haven't really seen the push back we
thought we might from some of our
trading partners, which goes to show
just how broken the global trading
system was to begin with, where
countries are actually falling in line
with the president's vision of just
higher tariffs from the US side. It's
pretty incredible to watch.
>> They fall in line, but how much of this
just results in just a little bit of
trading less with the US and some of
these global partners looking elsewhere?
>> Well, we'll have to see. And that's
certainly the point that a lot of our
significant trading partners are making
that if the US is not open for business,
we're going to go elsewhere. We'll go to
China. We'll find other markets to
diversify. But we'll have to actually
see how this plays out. And even on the
private sector side, for companies
who've been waiting with baited breath
for a bit more certainty on the tariff
landscape, I think it's going to take
several weeks to absorb and understand
what these tariff rates really mean, how
that impacts supply chains. And then
again, for our trading partners, whether
or not they want to continue doing
business with the United States or not,
I think we're going to see that play out
over the next several weeks and several
months. I don't think this is an
overnight decision, but clearly there
has been buyin to the fact that the old
way of doing trade didn't work. And so
there is a search for a new path. And if
this is it, the president will have hit
it out of the park. If not, we'll see
something else emerge over the next
several months and years.
>> The advice a couple of weeks ago was to
grab a beer and just wait right now.
Kellyanne, what's your advice to
corporate clients?
>> Yeah, I I I think the time for the beer
may have come and gone. I think some of
these tariff rates are going to be a bit
stickier uh just in terms of this global
10% to 15% baseline on most of our
trading partners with some elevated
rates 20% in Asia and then there are
some outliers like we talked about with
Switzerland and others which we may see
adjustments on. But I do think you can
now start to see a bit of a clearing in
the path in terms of what some of these
tariff rates might look like. But the
other side of the story we don't know
about is what concessions our trading
partners may have made. And for many of
these trading relationships, it's not
just the tariff levels that matter. It's
these non-tariff barriers that can be
the difference between doing business in
an economy and not. And we haven't seen
the text of these deals that have been
announced, what concessions again may
have been made. And I think we need a
bit more certainty there before we're
really going to see businesses moving in
this new direction. former senior White
House trade adviser Kellyanne Shaw.
Thank you so much and have a wonderful
weekend. Maybe not pounding beers, but
pounding Red Bulls and Celsius.
>> Yeah, as long as those Celsiuses aren't
high noons. What I was so struck by what
Kellyanne Shaw said just there is the
fact that these deadlines don't really
matter and the fact sheet basically says
that you can come to us with a new
trading deal if you have one. So, we
could be talking about this for the next
3 months or the next three years.
>> What was what were we saying about
certainty and whether we're getting any
certainty? We'll be talking about that
throughout the show. Coming up though,
don't miss this. A fantastic guest that
we have, Aries Management Chief
Executive Officer Michael Arugetti on
the shifting private capital landscape
after reporting earnings. That's just
ahead.
[Music]
Just one hour from the third biggest
story of the day. evidently non-farm
payrolls at least for now but it will
become the main event as people try to
understand exactly what ramifications
that figure has on Fed policy right now
a bit of softness after earnings the
disappointed from Amazon in particular
S&P futures lower by 1% you could also
say perhaps a little bit of a top
blowoff given such high valuations euro
dollar uh not doing much of anything
after a blockbuster month for the dollar
the strongest monthly gain going back to
2022 yields creeping higher Two hours
away from the cash open. The morning
movers is where it's at. Danny, what are
you looking at?
>> I'm looking at Eastman Chemical this
morning. Chemical companies always
interesting just because of their
exposure to so many parts of the
economy. Down 12 1.5%. It reported
yesterday it was a miss. Basically
saying it's the challenge of the macro
environment that there's caution because
of the tariff landscape. Then there was
Exxon. They reported this morning it was
a beat. And there you see shares just
under 1%. Yes, there were lower oil
prices, but they offset some of that
with robust oil production from the
Peran Basin and Guyana. Finally, Figma,
the IPO that has finally arrived. Shares
up 20%. They have surged 250%
since they IPOed. It values the design
software firm at $56 billion. So maybe
some hope that IPOs are returning this
year.
>> Yeah, it's really interesting to see all
the IPOs that have come out actually
perform better than they have in
previous years. There just haven't been
that many of them. So it raises a
question talking about that in just a
bit. On our radar this morning, the top
story, President Donald Trump unveiling
new tariffs boosting the average US rate
on goods across the world to 15.2%. The
new tariffs take effect after midnight
on August 7th. Don't miss our
conversation with Jameson Greer, the
ambassador who's been really working
through all of this. Amay,
>> absolutely. He's at the negotiating
table for all of these deals and some of
these deals that they didn't quite get
to the end there, like Switzerland, like
Taiwan, like India. And I think that's
really where we want to focus on what
happens in the next 6 7 days with these
countries that their tariff rates have
gone up like Switzerland since April 2nd
even though they've been in constant
communication. And the Swiss trade
representative told me in June
negotiations were going well and she was
given reassurances by Bessant by Greer
that as long as they were in good faith
they would get an extension of the
deadline and clearly they did not unless
August 7th is the new deadline. Well,
and then it also raises the question of
when are negotiations finished or are
they constantly ongoing? President Trump
sending letters to 17 of the world's
largest drug makers demanding they
charge the US what other countries pay
for new medicines. The president giving
the companies 60 days to voluntarily
comply and threatening action if they
don't. Those shares are falling across
the board. Although you could argue that
those like Norvon Nordosk have been hit
by other things like uh the
disappointing performance of their
weight loss drug. We'll get into that in
a bit. But a tale of two tech earnings.
We do want to talk about what we got
last night. Apple reporting a strong
revenue beat and a rebound in iPhone
sales saying no it's not just a bringing
forward of demand. Meanwhile, Amazon's
profit guidance and cloud growth falling
short of street expectations. And this
really raises the issue, how much Danny,
is there going to be a penalty for
companies that are not effectively using
spending that is just not mounting and
mounting among the four tech behemoths.
>> But we still don't even know how
effective that spending is at this
moment. People have kind of been hailing
Meta. Oh, look at Meta. It's such a
great example. They spent a lot and
things like ads are getting better, more
people are using Instagram. The problem
is is the type of AI they were using was
kind of the older kind. It wasn't the
generative AI that everybody's piling
into. So you have this moment still
where they are trying to one up each
other in terms of spend and we still
don't have exactly what the implications
of that is going to be and what the use
case is going to be and I think in the
Amazon earnings you see the nervousness
to make sure that it really shows up. If
you feel this year like all of this has
been a lot of just complicating noise
and you want to just take a look at what
is actually going on on the ground that
doesn't really move as quickly and
doesn't have the same kind of whipssaw
from headlines that some of the public
markets do. We got to look at
alternative asset managements, which is
really what so many different investment
managers have been talking about, is the
alternative to this whipssaw, head
spinning world that we've been talking
about all morning. Aries Management, a
global alternative investment manager
with over $570 billion in assets under
management reporting second quarter
earnings today, highlighting solid
financing, growth, momentum, and seeing
the market come back to life. Joining us
now, I'm so pleased to say, is Aries
management CEO Michael Aragetti. Thank
you so much to be here with for being
here with us. I want to start with this
idea that you did a really solid
performance despite the fact that LBO
volumes were materially lower than last
year and there's this expectation that
deals were going to pick up in the
second half because of trade certainty.
Well, have we gotten that certainty to
really kickstart that type of corporate
activity?
>> I think there's a misconception that
alternative asset management is just
driven solely by M&A and private equity
volumes. But when you really zoom out
and you say what what is going on in the
private markets, we are active in
digital infrastructure, real estate, um
private credit, assetbased finance, and
really a broad cross-section of the
global economy. So if you look at our
quarter, we put 27 billion to work this
quarter in a very subdued deal
environment. What's happening now in the
private markets is there's a huge need
for liquidity solutions and refinancing.
If you look at private equity as one
example, there's about $3 trillion of
private equity that's been invested that
needs to get returned to invest to to
investors and about a trillion dollars
of new capital that needs to get put put
to work. So there's this huge imbalance.
And so one of the things that private
market providers like us are doing now
is really coming in with creativity and
innovative solutions to try to buy down
that installed base of of private
equity. So we're not really reliant on
deal volume. Obviously we love it when
the the markets are are ripping, but
when they're not, it's it's still pretty
good.
>> Does that mean that the lesson you
learned from this period of when things
are backlogged? And again, just given
the breadth of the success in your
earnings that you need to deemphasize
some parts of the business that are more
sensitive to M&A that have more of a
cyclical type of attribute to them.
>> I think I I don't know if we want to
deemphasize. I think part of what we
have tried to build is a business that
provides solutions through cycles to our
investy clients, whether they're private
equity sponsors or large corporates, and
our investor clients. And the only way
that we could do that is to diversify
the product set geographically where we
invest in the capital structure, what
returns, what the structures are. So
ideally what you want to have as a
business which we're demonstrating that
can perform regardless of the market
environment.
>> Well, part of the diversification was
also things are uncertain in the US to
Lisa's point. Is that period over? Is
certainty restored? Is it time to hit
the go button again on deals? You know,
it felt it it's it's always great when I
come on the show because you go to bed
and you're like, "Oh, we're going to
have this really nice calm conversation
about how certain things are and how how
deal volumes are going to pick up and
then we get a new headline and and as
you said, Lisa, I think you have to try
to find the signal through the noise."
And when we look at our portfolios
around the globe, the fundamental
performance is still really strong. Um
there's a lot of liquidity in the
markets. Uh there is a lot of pent-up
demand to transact. Uh we saw that in
June. I think once we got the tax bill
done and we saw some certainty on on
tariffs, the market really picked up. So
I don't want to say that one headline on
on one day is going to uh knock us off
course, but yeah, I think there's
there's a real pent up demand for M&A.
Corporate M&A is picking up. Private
equity pipelines are picking up. So So
I'm still optimistic.
>> What does that optimism look like
throughout the year? What is your
expectation when we get something that
does look back to normal that does see
this pipeline that's being built up
really be put into force?
>> I think on the on the private market
side, you have to appreciate that the
structure of the capital actually has a
a timeline on it. And so one of the
things that people need to understand is
just the weight of money in the private
markets requires transaction activity.
And so that $3.2 trillion that I
mentioned, you know, half of it is over
5 years old. and there's a desire to get
that money back to investors to get the
the gears moving again. And so even if
you don't have M&A, people are going to
be looking for ways in the secondary
market, for example, to do transactions.
So I think you're going to continue to
see, you know, the weight of the money
and the the the time constraint push
companies into the market. And I think
on the corporate side, you know, there's
there's a desire to grow too. Um, we did
see corporate M&A pick up dramatically
even in the last week. I'm sure if you
talk to the sellside bankers, they'll
tell you the level of pipeline pipeline
activity is picking up dramatically. So,
you know, I can't quantify what that
looks like, but if June was an
indicator, you know, and and we get some
stability here, I think third and fourth
quarter could be pretty robust.
>> You mentioned the tax bills behind us,
tariff uncertainty, potentially some of
it behind us, you see a lot of signal,
less noise coming from that. And then
there's this idea of deregulation. Is
that's what pushing potentially some of
this M&A?
>> I think there's absolutely a tone. It's
funny, you saw pre- liberation day,
January, February, just the exuberance
with the new administration, pro
business, deregulation, and you saw
people come off the sidelines
dramatically, and then we took a pause.
Now that we've digested, you're
beginning to feel that again. So, I
don't want to say that the animal
spirits have been unleashed, but the the
confidence that the administration wants
to push transaction volume is pro
business and focused on drag, I think,
is is going to be a catalyst for sure.
When you talk, I hear an economy flushed
with capital. I hear an economy that has
plenty of access to financing. I hear
that financing is not tight in any
capacity. We're talking about tightest
spreads in the global credit market and
public markets going back to 2007.
>> Do you think it is appropriate to start
talking about more accommodation from
the Fed or do you think that that's
problematic given what you're actually
seeing on the ground with some of the
companies that you're investing in?
Everything that we're seeing says that
the economy is on stable footing. We're
seeing continued growth. As an example,
we reported earnings in our uh publicly
traded BDC, 13% year-over-year EBITD
growth. And those companies, while
levered, have actually digested the
higher cost of capital pretty well. So,
to your point, we're living in a higher
rate environment. The plumbing is
working. Nothing's broken. Almost every
liquid market is near all-time tights.
Um, so it doesn't feel necessary to to
take a more accommodative stance. I
think tariffs will be inflationary. I
know that there's an argument uh that
some people put forward that it won't
be, but to the extent that they will be
and the economy continues to grow, that
would argue for rates to stay higher for
longer or at least to see a slower trend
down.
>> So Mike, in this quarter, you had really
robust fundraising coming from a variety
of sources, but part of that was wealth,
too. We're in this environment right now
where there's an expectation that the
Trump administration is going to open up
401ks to some private assets. You've
seen some of your peers, KKR Blackstone,
Blue Owl already set up partnerships
with 401k providers. Is that something
you're looking at as well?
>> Yeah, we're we're probably the number
two or number three player in the wealth
channel right now. Uh we raised about
$6.3 billion in wealth product alone
this quarter. Um close to half of our
AUM uh is in permanent capital vehicles
right now. Um the 401k conversation is
an interesting one. Uh I am a huge
believer in increasing access to
alternatives to the individual investor
whether that's directly or in the
retirement market. There's no reason
that an individual shouldn't have the
same access to alternative assets that
that institutional investors do. uh the
401k question I think is reason for
enthusiasm. Uh if you look at the size
of that market and the solutions that
are already there that market for
forever has really been fee first and
when we talk about fiduciary duty to the
retail investor in defined contribution
it's what's the cheapest solution that I
can get and I don't think that that's
the way that you want to be you know
shopping for investment solutions. Uh it
is a a complicated set of circumstances
uh in the sense that you still have to
get through the executive order which we
haven't seen although we expect to come.
Then we need to see rulemaking. There's
going to be a whole flurry of class
action lawsuits. I'm sure um we're going
to have to get plan sponsors comfortable
with the idea and then we're going to
have to demonstrate that we can deliver
excess return net of new fee agreements
to the investor that that get them
excited. So we're we're enthusiastic. We
have product that's already geared and
ready to go into that market. Uh we have
had significant dialogue with potential
partners in that market. So if and when
that time comes, I think you'll probably
see us, you know, jump in just given our
leadership position there. But we're
being a little bit more tempered in our
enthusiasm.
>> Yeah. It's interesting to hear some of
that caution cuz other people have
decided that this is off to the races
for getting that involved in the 401k.
And part of the criticism that comes up
sometimes is you're going to get players
that dump their worst assets in there
and then that brings within with it more
regulation and hurts the industry as a
whole. Is that a real concern?
>> Yeah, I I've heard people say that that
that is not the concern. uh you know I
think one of the the the significant
transformations we've seen in wealth
from prior versions is you are getting
the largest brandame managers around the
world that are coming into this market
with institutional quality product. Um
we're not going into these markets
because we have to. We're going into
these markets because we want we want
to. And so there's really no motivation
or incentive to do that. So I I don't
really understand that. Um, but one of
the things I always try to to say to our
people and even to our investors and the
research community, when the 401k market
opens, similar to just the wealth market
opening, it doesn't have a
transformational impact on what we can
do as a manager. I'm just now taking
assets that otherwise would find their
way into an institutional fund and
putting them into somebody's 401k.
That's exciting because it now increases
accessibility. It opens up new
fundraising markets. It diversifies our
business. but it doesn't give me a new
product to then go into the market and
deliver value to my my customer. So,
we're excited about it, but you know,
until we get to a world where we're
feeling like we're constrained in our
ability to raise capital in other
channels, I I just, you know, I I again,
I I have tempered enthusiasm. If you
look at our fundraising this quarter, we
had our second largest fundraising
quarter on record. We we raised about
$26 billion of of capital this quarter.
the the fundraising has not been the
challenge I think for most all managers.
It's really can I find great quality
things to invest in and so the idea that
we're going to continue to bring more
capital in you know it has as much
possible risk as it does opportunity.
>> Michael Argetti areas management chief
executive officer you've reported
earnings you go on vacation now
>> Monday.
>> Okay.
Well a lot of people are hoping to do
the same. Thank you so much for being
with us this morning. Right now let's
get you an update on stories elsewhere.
Here is your blue book brief with Lizzie
Burton. Lizzy,
>> hey Lisa. President Donald Trump ramping
up his attacks on Fed Chair Powell. The
president posting on Truth Social this
morning, quote, Jerome too late Powell,
a stubborn must substantially
lower interest rates now. If he
continues to refuse, the board should
assume control and do what everyone
knows has to be done. Elsewhere, shares
of Madna are falling in the pre-market
after the company lowered the top end of
its revenue forecast for the year.
Meanwhile, its second quarter loss came
in narrower than expected as cost
cutting efforts offset waning sales of
its CO shot. The CFO saying quote, "I
hope it shows that investor shows
investors that we're being financially
disciplined." And President Trump making
some renovations at the White House
building a new ballroom. The 90,000
square foot space with seating for 650
people will cost an estimated $200
million. The president said that he'll
pay for the project along with donors.
And that should be my brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much, Lizzy. Up next, risks
to the labor market.
>> The unemployment rate is is still
relatively low, but Sherpal said more
than once to a number of questions. He
thought the risk to the labor market to
the downside. We're expecting a 95,000
headline gain. So, a step down in a
headline gain.
>> About 45 minutes until that non-farm
payrolls report. Sarah Wolf of Morgan
Stanley joining us next.
[Music]
trying to understand the weakness this
morning. Is it because of the tariff
rates or is it just because people are
exhausted for so from so many record
highs and such incredible exuberance
around American exceptionalism right now
just taken off a little bit uh down
about a 1% on S&P futures really the
dollar has been the story over the past
month given the fact that we've seen
such a huge strengthening a sort of
reversal of what we had seen in the
first half of the year yields just
marginally higher with a whisper number
for that non-farm payrolls report in 40
minutes time of 120,000 jobs under
surveillance this morning. Risks to the
labor market.
>> The unemployment rate is is still
relatively low, but Sherpal said more
than once to a number of questions, even
though the risks to the labor market to
the downside. And I think that's the
concern. We're all looking for signs of
which way is it going to break. We're
expecting a 95,000 headline gain. So, a
step down in the headline gain, but if
we think about the details, really
details that are going to be no softer
really than June.
>> Here's the latest. The labor market in
focus as non-farm payrolls drop at 8:30
a.m. Eastern. Bloomberg Survey expecting
104,000 jobs added and employment tick
slightly higher. Joining us now is Sarah
Wolf of Morgan Stanley. Sarah, thank you
so much for joining us. What would be
considered a good number and what would
be considered a bad number?
>> I think to Jonathan's point, it really
is going to depend on the unemployment
rate. So, even if we get 50,000 payrolls
with an unemployment rate that stays at
4.1% or barely edges up, maybe markets
will get a little bit spooked at first,
but that's not enough to get the Fed to
move. Um, we would really need to see a
meaningful move higher in the
unemployment rate as chair pal mentioned
perhaps something closer to 4.3% that
would uh be above the consensus
expectations for 4.2.
>> Where are you seeing the bulk of the
hiring and how much does that matter?
Right. We've seen for example healthcare
composing uh comprising a huge part of a
lot of the job gains over the first half
of the year. There was the government
employment that's sort of been one of
the big wild cards. How important is the
composition in this particular report?
>> Well, we definitely want to see good
breath in job gains because that
indicates overall health of the economy.
To your point, we were seeing a lot more
concentration health care in government.
uh in the last report that we got for
June, most of the job gains surprisingly
came through state and local employment.
And that's one of the reasons why
overall payrolls are expected to slow
quite a bit from last month. Can we
sustain that that amount of state and
local jobs? Likely not. Um and so that's
going to step down quite a bit, but
we're looking at the underlying details
in particular manufacturing jobs. Are we
starting to see the trade spillovers
weigh on the manufacturing sector? We
have not seen that to date yet. Um, and
then also looking at other sectors that
are related to the trade war. So,
retail, transportation, and warehousing.
We really want to be watching these
sectors closely because we're all
holding our breath to wait and see how
bad the trade disruptions will be on the
real economy. And so far, we've seen
some slowing, but nothing that's uh
flashing signs of red.
>> Well, the other potential drag and
impact to this labor market has been
immigration and just the supply of
labor. Sarah, part of the reason that
the numbers themselves have been
deemphasized and we've emphasized the
unemployment figure. How much do you
expect it to show up? How do we
understand what the impact has been at
the moment of more deportations be
itself or otherwise and what's to come?
>> We're already seeing it in the data. If
we look at the labor supply numbers and
labor force participation rate, that's
been coming down and it's one of the key
reasons the unemployment rate has been
staying at 4.1%.
demand is slowing but also supply. And
so cha what the chair Powell said back
on Wednesday was that this creates
downside risk to the labor market
because we're not just losing supply,
we're also losing demand. And so if
supply were to start to steady, that
deceleration in demand could very easily
start to push up the unemployment rate.
Um if we look at the immigration numbers
at at whole, it's been a massive
slowdown. Last year we were having over
3 million in net immigration. That
number is coming in um roughly a quarter
of that pace this year. Um and it could
come in even lower if we do see that
meaningful ramp up in deportation. So it
really hits both ways where it's helping
keep the unemployment rate low in the
labor market type. But one of the
spillover risks is that if you can't
hire lower skill lower education
workers, you also cannot hire higher
skill higher education workers for those
same uh for those same projects. So
think about construction for example,
research finds where when you have
stricter immigration policy, not only
does it weigh on lower skill jobs, you
can't start these construction projects,
but also higher skill jobs because you
don't need general contractors, for
example. So, we could start to see those
types of spillovers as well.
>> Sarah Wolf of Morgan Stanley. Sarah Wolf
of Morgan Stanley, thank you so much for
being with us. Right now, the
expectation, the survey has 104,000
jobs. The whisper number, I love the
whisper number. It's sort of it makes me
feel like I've got to go like 120,000.
People are expecting that upside
surprise given some of the uh beats that
we've seen in recent economic data.
>> It's like it's a secret what Wall Street
thinks. Don't tell anyone. You have to
say it underneath your breath. There's a
ticker on the terminal, the carry out.
>> No, but it's true. It is a more robust
figure because we've come to expect
that. Do we need to start to expect the
opposite of that? Part of that has to do
with the labor force participation, I
think, that number getting lower and
lower, but how much can we brush it off
of as that versus something that
represents actual weakness. Yeah. And
there's a real question of how policy
really goes into this. And Amory, we're
going to be looking for any further
truths. I'm sure there will be them.
There already have been some this
morning,
>> right? president is really now going
after the entire Fed board, saying at
some point they're just going to have to
overrule the Fed chair even though we do
know it's a deliberative body. We saw
two people descent. Maybe the president
is trying to say, "Anyone else want to
maybe be Fed chair? This is your moment
to descent." Yeah. And is there an
economic justification for it? Coming
up, we will be talking about that,
getting the numbers. Nadia Levelville of
UBS, US trade representative Jameson
Greer, do not miss that conversation
after the tariffs that were announced
overnight. Stephanie Roth of Wolf
Research and Mike Collins of PGM Fixed
Income. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]
>> US has a dynamic economy, a strong labor
market and it will outperform a lot of
peers.
>> There are sufficient signs of weakening.
You see consumers cutting their spending
back but continuing to get jobs.
>> Job growth is slowing down. You could
see a bigger slowdown starting even in
the next jobs report.
>> Unemployment rate has been the most
important data point you get, you know,
for a while now.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
an Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. 30 minutes away from the
July payrolls report. A bang to kick off
August. And no, it is not just data. It
is not just earnings but also a deluge
of new tariff rates on the US's trading
partners. And Danny, right now the focus
turns very much to what we see uh in the
next 30 minutes ahead of that payrolls
report given some of the strength that
we've seen in current data. And part of
it is because the tradability of the
tariff story itself has really
diminished. We've come to accept some of
these rates. So in turn what happens is
we need to see the consequences of it
the legacy the changes that happened
because of uncertainty because of
tariffs and that's where the data
matters. This market is numb to the
headlines coming in potentially what
it's not numb is to things like jobs
data the next two months of data that
the Fed said that it's going to be so
important for them. So that's where this
focus turns even if this morning we're a
little bit weaker but not falling off a
cliff like we did on April 2nd. You know
really setting up today's data was the
Fed meeting on Wednesday. the idea that
you had a Fed chair that said he still
sees a stable, strong, resilient labor
market and then you had two dissents
from Fed governors who cited labor
market weakness. That's really
highlighting how important it is to see
whether any of that weakness shows up in
28 minutes time.
>> Especially when Jay Powell said that the
most important number for him, the main
number is going to be the employment
unemployment rates. That's where
everyone's going to be looking at. And
then you have the president this morning
talking about the fact that yes, he
called Jerome Powell too late once
again. But he said if he continues to
refuse to cut rates, quote, "The board
should assume control and do what
everyone knows has to be done."
Potentially the president here is
signaling, "I see you two double
desenters. I take this on board and
maybe we should get some more denters at
the FOMC."
>> Right now, a lot of turmoil. You bleed
it through the markets and you get
softness after a lot of record highs
coming off very high valuations which
have raised some concerns about uh
whether things have gotten stretched.
S&P futures lower by about a percent.
NASDAQ down around the same uh same uh
same amount. You're seeing in the bond
market yields just creeping slightly
higher at the long end ahead of what
could be stronger than expected data if
you believe the whisper number. And you
could see that 30-year yield at 4.93%
up three basis points. And then in the
currency space, it really has been all
about dollar regaining, reclaiming some
of its haven status after the biggest
monthly gain going back to 2022. Uh
right now, we do want to head over to
Michael McKe who has some breaking news.
Before we get the after we get there,
we're going to be speaking with US Trade
Representative Jameson Greer. But Mike,
before we get there, what are we hearing
about what Mickey Bowman and Chris
Waller said about why they dissented on
the Fed's uh meeting on Wednesday?
>> Well, the Fed's blackout on speaking has
lifted. So, we are getting statements
from both of those Fed governors this
morning on why they dissented
essentially saying the same thing that
they see the cracks in the economy uh as
a bigger danger right now than other
members of the committee perhaps. Chris
Waller, he had laid out a uh rationale
for his descent earlier in the month of
July, and he repeats most of that today
that the labor market looks like it's uh
starting to show signs of weakening. He
says, "I believe the wait and see
approach is overly cautious and in my
opinion does not properly balance the
risks to the outlook and could lead to
that policy falling behind the curve.
When labor markets turn, they often turn
fast. If we find ourselves needing to
support the economy, waiting may unduly
delay moving toward appropriate policy.
Uh Mickey Bowman's statement is pretty
much the same thing. She takes the same
tack about uh the idea of getting behind
the curve, saying that she sees the risk
that a delay in taking action could
result in a deterioration in the labor
market and a further slowing in economic
growth. Taking a proactive approach in
moving closer to neutral would avoid an
unnecessary erosion in labor market
conditions and reduce the chance that
the committee will have to carry out a
significantly larger policy correction
at a future date. Both of them are
careful to say they respect the opinions
of the rest of the committee. They're
going to work with everyone on the
committee. There's no hard feelings
here. They just think that it's a little
more important to sound the alarm now
and maybe be a little premature than
wait too long. Michael McKay, stay
close. Thank you so much for that
analysis as we wait for the labor market
data to show whether this is something
that is a slowmoving train and then all
at once when it comes to weakness.
Coming up this hour, we're going to be
speaking with US trade representative
Jameson Greer with President Trump's
tariff deadline arriving and then sort
of being pushed out. Question of how
much we continue to negotiate. Nadia
Levelville of UBS with stocks on a
three-day losing streak. and Stephanie
Roth of Wolf Research reacting to this
morning's payrolls report. We begin this
hour with stocks falling as traders
await jobs data out in just under 30
minutes time. Nadia Levelvel of UBS
writing, "A strong payrolls number would
put downside risk to our September rate
cut call, but what continues to be more
important for equities is the structural
growth story in AI and electro
electrification." Nadia joins us now.
Nadia, great to see you. Thank you so
much for being here. and we will get to
the AI story, but let's start on how
hinged this equity market is to the idea
of rate cuts. Do they matter?
>> I I don't think that it matters that
much. And the reality is if we don't get
a rate cut, it's an indication that the
economy is still in good shape. I mean,
Powell has said that we're at full
employment. Um, if we do get a rate cut,
it probably means that uh the
unemployment rate has moved up and the
economy is shown signs of weakness,
which can cause, you know, some other
parts of the markets to rally. Finally,
we're getting a rate cut that can help
those in interest rate sensitive areas
of the market. Uh, right now we're
thinking that look, if you get something
an unemployment rate that's ticking up
closer to 4 and a.5% that obviously is
going to cause a a reason for concern.
So, we could see a bit of a a growth
scare in the market like we did last
year when we saw a 5% pullback in the
market. You know, positions are getting
a little bit full, but it also
accelerates the magnitude of the rate
cuts and Powell still has time to
message out at Jackson Hole. Well, isn't
bad news potentially good news when it
looks at the rate trajectory. So, if we
get a 4.5 unemployment rate, what does
that mean for equities?
>> Temporarily, you could see a knee-jerk
reaction because again, you know, people
are leaning into the fact that, you
know, growth still remain strong and so
this could be an indication that maybe
the Fed is too late, right? And it will
take some time for the market to absorb
that. Oh, this is an outlier. We know
that there are issues around labor
supply as well that could be causing
some distortion in the labor market. So
if you see um continuing claims as we
remember you know initial jobless claims
has been well behaved. So if you start
to see that tick up as well in coming
weeks that could cause the market to
lean into some more that maybe the Fed
is too late but the Fed put is still
there to come in and sort of save the
day if you will.
>> Yeah S&P 500 you say is trending towards
your upper end guidance. What kind of
catalyst we need to see to get to your
year-end target? I think you need to
continue to see the momentum in the AI
trade because at the end of the day off
off of the April low that is what has
been driving the market even throughout
this earning season and so if that trade
continues you can see the market push
up. At the same time you need those cycl
cyclical areas of the market to sort of
hold in there and that's what's been
happening. We're not ready yet to call
that 6700 on the S&P. We do think that
near term there is some risk. the market
feels a little bit extended and we're
also entering a period of low you know
liquidity in August and so small things
can move the market so near-term you
could see the market pull back where for
now maintaining that 6200 we would be
buyers at 6,000 but I think in the you
know in fourth quarter when we get more
clarity around trade and monetary policy
you could make a run for that 67
>> say does any of this matter as long as
the hyperscalers are spending like $400
billion every single year and building
up infrastructure
>> yeah and next year we think it will be
you know 500 billion and it could even
move higher from from there and and
there is question marks about you know
monetization of that and you are seeing
signs of that you're already seeing some
signs in terms of it you know uh a
advertising efficiency and and so forth
and you're you're hearing things from
Microsoft and in terms of co-pilot and
um AI agents to come and things like
that so you are seeing the monetization
picking picking up and remember the
bottleneck is not only in terms of like
you know AI chips I mean quite frankly
you heard Amazon say overnight like
what's really constraining is on the
power side. So this story is beyond
tech. It also includes utility who has
benefited from its pick up in AI spend
and parts of industrial. So it's not
just a semi- tech story. It's broader
than that. And that's healthy that we're
seeing that broaden out of a
>> It's interesting because on the utility
point, Neil Duta has been arguing that
it's actually going to be a stress on
the consumer. There's not enough energy
for the AI players. They use more of it.
It becomes more expensive for
households. They also have to pay that
more expensive bill. Have we fully
thought out some of the ramifications of
this increased spend and buildout from
the big AI players? Are there going to
be some consequences that maybe put some
more pressure on things like that like
the consumer potentially? And you're
hearing some of the states talk about
that as well, the need to build out. Um,
and you have companies that are going
direct, some of the hypers skills are
going directly to the the power
generators. And so that could help
alleviate some of the pressures. But
again, these are still known unknowns
that needs to be figured out. And
there's a potential for upward pressure
on electricity prices, but ultimately
these companies do have deep pockets. So
we think that the cost will be spread
and end up on that side. Meanwhile, we
are just uh careening toward that jobs
report. And it raises the question how
much it matters, right? I mean, you're
talking about all of these things,
whether it's investments in uh in
energy, whether it's investments in AI,
that might not actually help add jobs
all that much, some of these aspects.
Meanwhile, there's a real question from
the White House about whether there is a
real weakening in the underlying labor
economy. President Trump just putting
out on Truth Social. Strong descents on
the Fed board. It will only get stronger
too late. How much is there a
relationship and how much has it broken
down between the labor market, what we
get in 20 minutes time, and the stock
market performance, particularly in
large caps? Look, we all know that, you
know, on on um jobs Friday, there's
always knee-jerk reaction to the to the
data. And so, look, you could see if if
the numbers are weak, you again, you see
that knee-jerk reaction heading into the
weekend. We're heading into summer
vacations, taking some risk off of the
table after a very strong rally. You
know, wouldn't be too surprising to us.
But again, I do think that at the end of
the day, what's going to matter for this
equity market is the earnings growth. In
this second quarter, we're seeing very
strong trailing at you know trending
towards 10%. And in fact, when you look
forward to the uh the third quarter
earnings, it's actually holding in there
in terms of the forward uh forward
estimates and that's bucking the
historical trend when normally you see
um you know uh uh trims to the the
forward estimates. So I think that's
encouraging from the standpoint and a
lot of that is being driven by tech com
services and financials. There's still
that deregulation story that needs to
play out as well. We've all been trying
to wrap our head around this and I know
that that Emory as well as Danny have
been talking about this. The idea that
some of the efficiencies that we've been
getting from the technology come at the
expense of workers, right? That the cost
savings that have added to the revenues
that have mitigated some of the effects
of the tariffs have come from artificial
intelligence taking over certain roles
that humans used to play. How much could
you see ongoing expansion of margins
with a labor market that continues to
soften and become more difficult for
people to find jobs? I don't think that
that's a today issue. It's a future
potential issue that we need to address
and you're not seeing it in broadspread
areas of the economies. Definitely not
seeing it in in UBS and we are active
user of you know co-pilot Microsoft has
mentioned in a number of time um on
their earnest call. So not seeing that
yet but do think that it is it is a
future problem. and it needs to be self
but like any technological innovation um
that usually comes with new areas of
jobs being created as o as old areas get
you know less emphasized and so it
remains to be seen what the overall
impact but I I don't I think it's too
early to tell what what it will be the
past uh week the past month has been
about American exceptionalism
reasserting itself for all of these
reasons how much are you leaning into
that versus going the other way just on
a valuation story
>> well you know valuation as we know you
know it's not an indication of sort of
where the market is going to go over the
short term like is valuation getting to
the high end of that range again 22 and
a half times for the broader market yes
does it start to you know have the
market pull back we don't think so
because the earnings growth is there to
support that and I think the American
exceptionalism comes down to our
technology here the innovation and now
you have an administration also that is
leaning into that and supporting that
and removing some of the restrictions
around semiconductor chips and and and
AI technology so we think that, you
know, American exceptionalism from a
technology standpoint will will continue
and you're starting to see the dollar
gain a little bit as well this year. So,
don't think the story is over. The
margins are envied by the world. Um, and
we don't think those margins are going
away. Nadia Levelvel, thank you so much
for being here. Happy Friday. I'm
allowed to say that today. Nadia
Levelvel of UBS, we appreciate it. Right
now, let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. Here is your
Bloommer brief with Lizzie Burton.
Lizzie,
>> hi Lisa. President Trump unleashed his
latest round of tariff announcements
just hours before his August 1st
deadline. Most countries are facing a
baseline 10% tariff rate, but Trump
slapped 35% levies on Canadian goods not
covered under the USMCA. The new tariffs
will take effect August 7th to give US
Customs and Border Protection time to
prepare. And shares of Amazon are
falling in the pre-market. The online
retail giant projecting weaker than
expected operating income. It's also
trailing the sales growth of its cloud
rivals, leaving investors wondering
whether it's huge investments in AI are
actually paying off. CEO Andy Jasse said
it's very early days in AI and that the
company's efforts to lower the costs
will draw more customers over time. In
contrast, Apple shares are trading
higher in the pre-market. The company
reported its fastest quarterly revenue
growth in more than three years with
revenue rising 9.6% to $94 billion.
Strong iPhone sales and a rebound in
China helped beat estimates despite a
projected tariff hit. And that should be
my brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much, Lizzie. Up next,
we'll be speaking with US Trade
Representative Jameson Greer as
President's Trump's tariff deadline
arrives with quite a bang. That's next.
This is blood surveillance.
[Music]
We talk as if tariffs drive the entire
US economy. They don't. Goods subject to
tariffs represent 9% of GDP. I don't
want to minimize the impact, but tariffs
don't drive the entire US economy. The
consumer is doing just fine. Hey, we
have fiscal spending that in our minds
is going to be stimulative.
>> That was Sebastian Page of Troll Price
as we try to assess just how important
some of these tariffs are going to be
for the trajectory of growth going
forward for the US economy. Right now in
markets, we do see a bit of softness as
markets digest the new tariff rates as
well as sort of disappointing news from
Amazon. It's hard for me to call it.
They did beat uh you see S&P futures
lower by about a percent. You can see a
more pronounced weakening in the Russell
2000. Really the dollar strength has
been notable. the sort of reassertion of
uh whether we are seeing American
exceptionalism once again 114 on Euro
dollar and yields marginally higher
three basis uh points higher on the
10-year as people look ahead to
potential resilience in the labor market
and the US economy. Turning to our top
story out of Washington DC, President
Trump announcing new tariff rates around
the world set to take effect next week.
I am so pleased to say that US trade
representative Jameson Greer is joining
us now. Jameson Ambassador, thank you so
much for being with us. I know you've
been incredibly busy. I can imagine you
haven't slept much. I am curious how
much we're seeing the end of
negotiations or the beginning of the
end. There's there still seem to be some
loose ends to be tied up.
>> Well, I would say that, you know, we've
spent the past 120 days negotiating with
dozens and dozens of countries. And with
some of these countries, the deals have
been good enough that the president's
been willing to accept them. with other
countries, they're they're just going
have have a tariff. Uh but we have, you
know, you can look at some of the
information that's gone out there. We
have fact sheets. We have a joint
statement with Indonesia that gives some
details. You know, we'll be finishing
the paperwork in the next uh you know,
weeks and maybe a couple of months, but
but these deals are pretty much set. Uh
they are set, right? We we wouldn't make
an agreement unless we all knew the
contours of it and the countries knew
it. And it's exciting time because the
president has essentially reset the
global trading system. And so we'll be,
you know, finalizing everything that's
been agreed to on paper and and then
monitoring compliance going forward.
>> Ambassador Greer, can you help us
understand how you landed on some of
these rates, specifically a country like
Switzerland, it went from 31% on
Liberation Day, April 2nd, to now 39%
even though you and your colleagues were
in negotiations with the Swiss trading
partners?
>> Sure. Well, so first of all, the rates
are largely uh determined by the the
trade deficit of a country with the
United States and what the country is
willing to do to address that trade
deficit. You know, Switzerland, you
know, this is surprising to some to
hear, but we have a nearly $40 billion
trade deficit with Switzerland for a
country of 9 million. Uh now, we value
our relationship with Switzerland
certainly, but during our discussions
with them, you know, we weren't able to
to reach agreement on the best way to
reduce that trade deficit uh at all.
Right? They ship enormous amounts of
pharmaceuticals to our country. We want
to be making pharmaceuticals in our
country. Uh so this is a challenging
situation and and so we have you know
high tariffs not just on Switzerland but
many countries where we weren't able to
fully resolve a path forward on reducing
the trade deficit and opening markets.
>> My understanding was that the US and
Switzerland actually had a negotiated
text and it was just waiting on signoff
from President Trump. Is that accurate?
>> I think that's an overstatement. I I
mean the reality is all of these
countries you trade back and forth
paperwork. Uh and then you take it back
to your leaders to get guidance from
them. Uh and so nothing's agreed until
everything's agreed. That's what every
trade negotiator knows. Uh so you know
the reality is we negotiate with lots of
countries. Listen, there are a lot of
countries that didn't get a deal that
we've been negotiating with. And they of
course they all want a deal. They all
want a deal with the United States. Um
so I can understand that you know f
folks may want to try to manifest a deal
in the last minutes. Uh but we just have
to do what's right for America and the
president understands that too.
>> I'm thinking of other countries like
Taiwan which that rate went down. India,
Switzerland, of course we know you are
in negotiations with. So for between now
and August 7th, could some of these
countries that you spent a lot of time
with your counterparts get a deal?
>> Well, that that's not my focus. I I feel
like we've we've been able to get
everything set on on August 1st. Uh, of
course, any country that wants to talk
to us, they can always talk to us, and
I'm sure some will be eager to find ways
to reduce the deficit, open their
markets, etc. Uh, but we're we're really
focused right now on on implementing the
deals that have been reached.
>> Well, on implementing those deals,
Representative, you mentioned that you
would be looking and monitoring them for
any violations. How will this
administration judge what is a violation
and what the consequences of that would
be?
So, for example, uh you know, we put out
a a a fairly detailed joint statement
with Indonesia and we're finalizing the
underlying agreement. And in there, you
can see that they've made commitments on
tariff levels where they're going to
remove all of their tariffs. Uh they've
made commitments on non-tariff barriers
with respect to you know, agricultural
inspections and the way they uh you
know, treat certain digital trade. And
so, our office, which has hundreds of
people, the office of the US trade
representative, uh they watch this and
they make sure that Indonesia actually
does what it's supposed to do. uh and if
they don't the president has his tariff
authority. I mean the all of the deals
are premised and the and the modified
rates for these countries are premised
on them actually opening their market
making the investment and purchase
commitments they've agreed to and if you
don't you can have the tariffs go back
into place. This is b this is basic
trade enforcement. That's what we intend
to do here.
>> Ambassador right now there are a number
of countries coming out and saying this
is part of a negotiation and they plan
to keep talking with uh the team over in
the trade uh trade organization and
trade representatives from the United
States. Is that just messaging to their
own political constituents or is that
reality?
>> Well, well, listen, they c they
certainly have their domestic
constituents they have they have to talk
to. Um, you you can be sure that I woke
up this morning to a number of trade
ministers texting me and emailing me and
I'm sure they're reaching out to my
colleagues, Secretary Lutnik, Secretary
Besson, etc. Uh, and and my job is to
talk to these folks. I'm always going to
talk to these folks and, you know, if
they have proposals, you know, I'll talk
to them and and I'll brief the
president. uh you know we're focused on
implementation and doing uh you know
what's right to change the trading
system to one that benefits American
workers.
>> How much are you also hearing from US
companies concerned about certainty and
whether they're going to get clarity on
exactly what the rates are going to be
whether they will stick whether there
will be adjustments and how some of
these things will work with
transnational shipments of uh getting
penalized 40%.
So, so with respect to certainty, uh,
you know, President Trump has been
talking about a new tariff program for
for literally years, uh, decades in some
instances, you know, he has tariffs from
his first term that are still in place.
So, sometimes when companies say we want
certainty, what they mean is we want a
different outcome, right? Um, and you
know, by by putting, you know, the
market has baked in a lot of the tariffs
we put in. Uh, you know, the new tariffs
that we issued last night are firm.
That's why we put it out in a very clear
list. Everyone can see it and understand
with respect to sham trans shship
shipment that's always been illegal. Uh
and so we're just going to put an
additional 40% tariff on on that. So,
you know, I understand that there are
going to be edge cases where companies
have to change their supply chains and
no one wants to do that. They just want
status quo. But we can't have the status
quo. The status quo was what led to
offshoring and the loss of some of our
key industries. So during that supply
chain shift uh you know that can be
challenging for some companies. And I
talked to a lot of these folks. I want
them to understand the president's trade
policy. I want to hear about any, you
know, unintended consequences. But the
president's trade policy is moving
forward and and we're shifting from a
70-year policy based on purely
efficiency to a new policy based on fair
and balanced trade and and the world is
agreeing with us.
>> Ambassador Gre, what about the
unintended consequences of what's going
on with the sectoral tariffs on autos?
The Ford CEO was on Bloomberg television
yesterday talking about the price
disadvantage compared to auto companies
if they're making a com a car in Japan
because of the input costs of 25% on
those inputs that they need to make the
car coming to the United States versus
the 15% rate that Japan now has. What's
the point of the auto sectoral tariff if
basically it's going to be bilateral now
with country by country?
So, so first of all, uh, you know, there
are only a handful of countries that
export cars to us, right? It's
essentially, you know, Germany, Japan,
and a and a couple of countries in the
European Union. We also have Canada,
Mexico, and we had our domestic
producers uh, you know, choose over a
couple of decades to offshore a lot of
that production to Mexico. And so,
naturally, uh, there is some some
challenge as they as they continue to
reshore that. And we understand that,
right? I mean, our goal is long-term.
We're not looking at quarterly earnings
as policy makers. We're looking at a way
to make sure that we have a strong,
robust industrial base here that provide
good jobs for our workers and support
the national security. So, you know,
we're in constant contact with the
domestics, with the unions and
everybody. And, you know, I understand
that the that the auto companies are
receiving a credit for for content
that's made in America, which is how it
should be. That's what we're trying to
incentivize. when you're looking and
you're thinking long term, are you
preparing for a Supreme Court ruling
against using AIPA for these tariffs?
And if so, what's the plan B?
>> Uh so the case is at the federal circuit
right now. We had the arguments
yesterday. Uh you know, lots of
questions, a lot of preparation. DOJ did
a great DOJ did a great job. We had a
great team out there. We feel very
confident in the case. uh you know if if
there's still questions coming out of
the federal circuit or or further
litigation that goes to the Supreme
Court, we're confident there uh that
this statute clearly says the president
has the authority to regulate imports.
That's the language. No, not my words.
That's the statute statutes language. Uh
you know, in case there's a national
emergency and the president's uh
declared a national emergency. So we
feel confident, you know, if it goes the
other way, then we'll manage that. The
reality is the countries understand the
type of leverage that President Trump
has created. That's why they're doing
these deals and they're going to stick
regardless of what happens in
litigation.
>> That's where I wanted to finish and we
just have a couple of minutes. We have
are out of time with you, I know, but I
am curious what the game plan is should
there be some sort of overruling of
AIPA. Do you already have section 232
and others lined up?
>> Uh well, well, listen, we are we always
have all kinds of plans and I'm not
going to go deep into our strategy here,
mostly because we're pretty confident on
on the current plan. Um, but we will do
whatever it takes to make sure that the
president can continue to rectify the
trade deficit and change the global
trading system. And this is a historic
thing. This is once in a 100 years that
you have the chance to reorder global
trade like this and we're doing it and
we'll use whatever tools are necessary
to do it.
>> US Trade Representative Jameson Greer,
thank you so much for being with us. I'm
not sure when you sleep and we've been
talking about that with you and Scott
Besset as well. Ambassador, thank you
for your time. I appreciate it. really a
slew of changes at a time when there are
some real questions over what the
ramifications will be. But historic in
terms of magnitude, that's for sure.
>> Oh yeah, historic. These are the highest
tariff rates we've seen since the 1930s.
What was interesting he said that a lot
of these countries want to manifest
deals now. I need to know want to know I
think the market wants to know between
now and August 7th. I think the market's
trading on this. They are still in
negotiating mode. He said he woke up to
a number of text messages from his
counterparts, from negotiating partners
wanting to get to end potentially. Is
this the final moment where we can see
these concessions the administration has
wanted from places like India? Maybe
when it comes to things like Russian
oil, from Switzerland, maybe things like
pharmaceuticals, from Taiwan when it
comes to semiconductors. Is this the
final stretch for some of these big
trading partners?
>> Meanwhile, we are just about a minute
away, less than a minute away from the
payrolls data and a real question,
Danny, about how much the ramifications
from any of what we've seen on the uh on
the the headline turmoil that we've seen
has filtered into labor. It hasn't
filtered through yet. Will it start to
change? That is a question. But the fact
it hasn't filtered through yet means
that a lot of this market has been able
to look through some of the drama and
not necessarily trade it cuz it's not
showing up in the economic data quite as
much as we expected. What we are
expecting is 104,000 that is the median
in a survey of economists for the number
of jobs created in the month of July.
We're also expecting the unemployment
rate to tick up by uh some basis points,
4.2% 2% from 4.1%. The whisper number is
120,000. The potential of what is the
break even going into that right now.
S&P futures are lower right now. Let's
head over to Michael McKe with the
numbers. Mike, what do you see?
>> Well, we got a very disappointing number
here and this is going to get Wall
Street's attention. 73,000 jobs created
during the month of July. The forecast,
as you said, was for 104, and we came
down from 147 last month. uh looking to
see uh what the revisions are. Uh right
now the three-month revisions uh add to
uh payrolls by uh 35,000. So that has to
be factored in. Private payrolls 83,000.
They were 74,000 last month. So uh looks
like government has uh subtracted from
the overall level of jobs and uh that
would be a rebound or going back
basically uh to uh the seasonals issue
that we saw in June. Unemployment rate
4.2% as forecast. We'll look at what the
three-digit number is in just a second.
Average hourly earnings up 3/10en as
forecast. average hourly earnings on a
year-over-year basis at 3.9%. They were
3.8% the month before. So, it looks like
a little bit of a gain overall for
people. I'll uh dig into this some more
and let you figure out how the markets
are reacting to this disappointing
headline number.
>> Mike, that sound that you hear that is
the 2-year yield plummeting and that is
what we're seeing down more than 10
basis points in response to this weaker
than expected number. You can see
equities have maintained some of the
losses that they saw from earlier, but
across the board, a bid into bonds is
the big trade. 10-year yields down five
basis points. The 2-year yield, this
really is the key moment, down uh 12
basis points to 3.84%
as people take a look at what this labor
market report means for the Federal
Reserve. In the uh currency space, we
had been seeing quite a bit of dollar
strength on expectation that the Fed
would have to remain uh really strong
with policy. We see a complete reversal,
the euro bouncing versus the dollar14.81
as people assess that maybe this will be
a Fed that will get pushed into cutting
rates sooner and faster. really the idea
that you could see uh the number come in
softer as well as the unemployment rate
also ticking just slightly higher
concerning or at least uh provoking a
response that would imply more rate
cuts. Mike, you've had some time to dig
through some of the numbers. Really
notable to me that the change in private
payrolls came in slightly uh lower than
expected, but manufacturing so much
lower actually a contraction there. What
stands out to you? Yeah, you got 11,000
jobs lost in manufacturing and we had
seen signs of this coming in some of the
ISM reports and we do get ISM for July
coming out at 10:00 this morning. But uh
it does suggest that the companies in
manufacturing at least were not ramping
up at all. They've lost a few thousand.
Uh construction only 2,000. There were
13,000 that were uh supposedly found by
ADP in their numbers on Wednesday. So
construction not really a surprise given
the circumstances and what we've heard
about construction overall. Uh service
producing jobs 98,000 that's uh a low
number but in line with the fact that
service producing jobs are the majority
of jobs in the economy. And then of
course the number that really has uh set
the tone here is the government jobs. uh
we see 12,000 jobs lost at the federal
level and that's going to just start
picking up because a lot of people who
left the federal government under Doge
got some sort of severance and they
don't count as unemployed as long as
they are getting severed. So we'll see
more of that. uh overall government uh
including state and local down 10,000
and that is uh a rebound from last
month's 74,000 jobs created most of
those in state and local government
because of education and economists
think that was mostly uh because of a
seasonal adjustment problem I didn't
mention earlier but uh we should point
out that uh the uh average work week
rose by a tenth of a percent 34.3
and that may suggest suggest that even
though companies were laying some people
off to keep up with business, they had
to work others harder. So, a little bit
of a buffer on the other side.
>> As you speak, Mike, we're seeing the
two-year yield just plunge that much
lower. Michael McKe, thank you so much.
So, if you are just joining us, here's
the state of where we are. We did get
the Don farm payrolls report for July.
73,000 is the number we got. 104,000 was
the expectation. We see that increase in
the unemployment rate as expected from
4.1% to 4.2%. 2%. We did see average
hourly earnings still go up by 0.3%. But
as you parse into the numbers, here is
what is accelerating that downward shift
in yields, that upward shift in
expectations for Fed rate cuts. The
revisions in non-farm payrolls for the
month of June came in at 14,000. That is
downgraded from 147,000. I had to do a
double take, Danny, if that was accurate
or not, but you really see that downward
revision in the prior month coming into
play in a massive way. June goes down to
14,000. May goes down to 19,000. That
makes 73,000 today look all that much
more weak. I think that's going to be
the thing that catches a lot of
attention this morning. Not necessarily
the number that just comes in because if
the revisions continue to stack up that
way, what is 73,000 actually? Is that
even a lot more weak?
>> Neil Dota of Renmack goes right to
Twitter. Waller looks vindicated. It was
Christopher Waller that on this program
talked about just weeks ago before he
made this descent that he is seeing
cracks in the labor market and we are
seeing that today when it comes to this
unemployment report.
>> Yeah, and I'm sure that we'll get some
more true social posts on this. Uh
joining us now is Stephanie Roth of Wolf
Research. Stephanie, you've had a couple
minutes to look through this. Is this a
terrible jobs report or is this a little
bit more complicated?
>> It's pretty bad, especially on the
revisions. I think that's the biggest
thing. I mean the 258,000 of executive
revisions for the prior two months is is
pretty eye openening. Of course, we're
all watching unemployment rate because
that's what for for a couple of reasons.
That's what Powell is telling us to
focus on, which remains, you know, up a
little bit, but fairly steady. I think
what we're seeing is the massive impact
from immigration having uh important
implications on the labor market and
that's what's driving at least some of
these negative revisions.
>> When you look at the market reaction
though, it looks like they're pricing in
September and October for Fed rate cuts.
if we see another weak job report, is
that what you would expect?
>> I think there's there's certainly a
chance of that. That said, the inflation
data are also going to be pretty
elevated in the next couple of prints.
So, it makes it a really tough backdrop
for for the Fed and in in in this
landscape. And this is something we've
been warning our clients about uh for
quite some time that risks are quite
elevated over the summer because we're
going to be in an environment where
immigration is going to have very
negative impacts on the net hiring of
this economy. the unemployment might
remain okay and inflation is likely to
be quite elevated and that's a really
toxic backdrop for the Fed to be able to
cut.
>> We do have though 73,000 for non-farm
payrolls weaker than expected 4.2%
unemployment rate ticking higher. What
is the line in the sand for this
unemployment rate that Jay Powell is
saying is what he's mainly looking at
the main number. I think we're talking
somewhere between 43 44 45 4 five for
sure that they'd be cutting, but I think
it has to get continue to creep higher
throughout the course of the summer in
the in the backdrop that inflation is
going to be quite elevated.
>> Is this Waller vindicated what we're
looking at right now? Is this the denter
saying that the labor market is weak? Is
this a a hat tip, a vindication of that?
>> I still kind of think that it was a
little bit political. However, the data
do happen to be consistent with uh that
message. So, if it's consistent with
that message, but it's still political,
how much weight can you put into that?
If they continue to go forward and you
have President Trump who on was on Truth
Social this morning saying that the
board needs to take over, that they
should be the ones dictating policy. If
you start to get more of the dovishness
from the board, do we have to continue
to write it off as political? Do we just
put less weight in it from here on out?
>> I think if you see other members
continue to get more dovish, I think
that's that's important. We we we all
knew that the dissents were going to
come from those two board members,
right? So if it if you start to hear
more more dovishness from the rest of
the committee, I would imagine Powell
will also feel the same way because that
would be consistent with the actual
data. The those two members in
particular were were known to be, you
know, having some sort of more political
leanings to some extent in recent times.
The rest of the members, if they start
to become more dovish, I imagine POW
will be right alongside them. And that
will be because the the data continue to
show that the employment backdrop is
weakening. Meanwhile, we're looking
right now at markets. The 2-year yield
continuing to fall uh down 15 basis
points to 3.8%.
You have seen it uh come in even more. I
just wonder if this really does set up
September in a way, Stephanie, that is
unassalable in terms of cutting rates
given the fact that especially the
revisions that tends to be a leading
driver of the direction of travel. Isn't
this something saying September has to
be back on the table in a massive way?
Yeah, I think that's totally fair. And
if you look at the details within the
the household survey, the the main
driver of the of of the sort of the
softness this month in unemployment was
foreign born population. So, I think
this is exactly what we're seeing, the
massive implications of the immigration
policy having effects on labor market.
Stephanie Roth of Wolf Research, thank
you so much for being with us on this
non-farm payrolls uh day on this Friday.
I do want to get back to Michael McKe
who's been parsing through all of the
details. Mike, what have you found as
you've gone through it? Well, Stephanie
was just talking about the uh issue of
immigration and how that might have
affected the numbers overall. We did see
a drop in the labor force of 38,000 and
a revised drop from last month of
130,000 in the labor force. Now, of
those who uh dropped out of the labor
force this time, 341,000
in the foreignb born category. So, a
major drop in the number of people who
uh are either legal or uh undocumented
in their participation in the labor
market and that I'm sure has a role to
play overall in what we're seeing now.
>> Mike, uh stay close. I'm sure you'll get
more as we parse through all of that.
Joining us now is Michael Collins of
Pentium Fixed Income. Really fascinating
point there by Mike on the immigration
side of things. From your perspective,
how conclusive is this labor market
report about September and a rate cut
then and frankly about deterioration in
the US labor market?
>> Yeah, Lisa, good morning. Uh, right now
there are two full cuts uh again priced
in for the the rest of this year from,
you know, only about 35 basis points
priced in um an hour ago. So, so big
shift obviously in expectations and I
think that that does make sense. I think
it is justified. But but this is a trend
Powell talked about actually a lot in
his press conference that we've been
talking about. In fact, we we discussed
it a month ago, Lisa, that maybe we're
in a world given the the you know
immigration and deportation policies
that a 0 to 50,000 monthly gain in jobs
is the new normal. That's the new run
rate. Uh and here we are with those
revisions as you pointed out. We are
kind of in that world. Uh,
interestingly, again, as Powell pointed
out, the unemployment rate is is pretty
sticky. Uh, the hours worked ticked up.
The the the earnings, the wages ticked
up, right? So, there really aren't signs
that the labor market is is weak, that
there's a big offset in supply and
demand. It's just that the supply has
shrunk a lot. uh and it will continue to
uh and it's you know obviously the the
government jobs is a demand story but
we're just kind of decelerating into a
lower run rate of jobs which which of
course translates into a lower run rate
of GDP right if you look at consumer
spending so far in the first 6 months of
this year Lisa we're running just below
zero right real consumer spending which
is obviously correlated to GDP so we are
kind of in this really low growth world
right now that that we've been
expecting.
>> Well, the participation rate is down as
you say, unemployment rate up in July
despite the exit of people from the job
market. Isn't that worrying for the Fed?
Are they potentially behind the curve
right now?
>> You know, it really depends, right? This
is the conundrum that the Fed has, and I
actually give Powell credit for talking
about this, that if job growth is weak,
but the unemployment rate, the balance
between the supply and demand for jobs
isn't that out of whack, meaning the
unemployment rate ticks up to 4 and a
half and and stabilizes there. You know,
that's something I think the Fed would
generally characterize as as relatively
full employment. I think it's when it
starts to shoot toward five and
certainly if we see a five handle uh
they'll probably be cutting in earnest
you know not talking about 25s and 50s
but you know getting that funds rate
down to three uh really quickly
>> even so Mike just looking at some of the
details it looks like healthc care
accounted for 75% of the gains that we
saw in this employment report it was the
main engine of growth is there a concern
about the breath of jobs being added
should we add that to the ledger of
reasons to be concerned about this labor
market.
>> Yeah, absolutely. And this is something
that certainly my colleague Tom Corselli
has been speaking with you about for
months now that if you take away
government jobs in healthcare, i.e. the
kind of non-yclical, you know,
structural jobs, the the cyclical job
growth has been really weak all along
throughout the whole year and this is
just really a continuation of of that
trend.
>> So what do we do from here, Mike? If we
are still in this period where there is
some weakening but it's not weakness.
The rally that we're seeing in the front
end is that something that you'd want to
chase at this moment?
>> Yeah, you buy you buy bonds, right? I
mean, it's it's a big beautiful bond
market and and returns have been
substantial and they're going up, right?
Yields are really high and we've been
certainly advising clients, you know,
take advantage of these rates while
they're high. I mean, you know, the old
adage is don't fight the Fed. You know,
my my new tagline is don't fight the
triumphvirvate, right? You have a
president, a treasury secretary, and
ultimately a chair of the Fed that all
think rates should not be again 25 or 50
basis points lower, but potentially
hundreds of basis points lower. And I
think that maybe will be realized over
the next few years.
>> Mike, certainly people are buying bonds
today. We can see that across the curve,
although much more so on the front end.
when you say buy bonds, I am curious
which bonds at what point you can really
start to uh extrapolate out longer term
10-year 30-year rates and say it's a
good time to lock that in at a time
where there still are longerterm
questions about the tariff rates that we
got last night, how long-term
inflationary it'll be, especially if the
Fed is prompted to cut rates.
>> Yeah, I mean really across the whole
curve. Obviously, as you're seeing
today, that that 2, five, 7, you know,
10 year, that kind of short intermediate
part of the curve comes crashing down
the most. That's where you get the most
bang for your buck, Lisa. Meaning, you
know, the you don't have to take a lot
of interest rate risk to get a lot of
benefit. Uh, but the whole curve, you
know, right now the funds rate that's
priced in for the rest of our lives is
3%. meaning the Fed gets to three by the
end of 2026 and keeps it there and
actually increases it a little bit uh
for for the next, you know, decade. You
know, what's not priced in is a
two-handle or or a one handle funds
rate, right? So, so that um realization
could could cause a whole curve to kind
of come crashing down. So, you don't
want to just lock in a two-year here
because then you have two years of
duration, you know, two years of of
reinvestment risk effectively. I really
and we've been encouraging you know
investors to to inch out on the curve
and to extend uh duration you know maybe
not you know go absolutely long to
30-year but you know but but add
duration.
>> Stephanie Roth of Wolf Research still
here and I'm looking right now at some
of the internals of this data and it
includes average hourly earnings that
ticked up to 3.9% uh from the previous
3.7%. You can see uh right now across
the board there are still signs that
things are solid. You know, even the
unemployment rate, yes, it ticked up,
but not to the significant degree that
some people were worried about. What is
the inflationary risk here longer term
at a time when the Fed is being prompted
to cut from a number of different
reasons and there still are these
tariffs in the system?
>> Yeah, this is a a challenge because the
the data that we're seeing is largely
appears to be driven by immigration and
that actually tightens the labor market
for blue collar workers. So what we what
we might see is a labor market which is
something that was kind of known heading
into this event, but it's it's now the
reality it's it's kind of painful
because what we're seeing is job gains
that have slowed down tremendously. It
results in upward pressure on wages and
then upward pressure from from tariffs.
So we're we're it's like a
stagflationary type of shock which we're
starting to see play out in the data.
It's just a really complicated mix for
for the Fed to kind of deal with from
here. So it looks like the the labor
market is okay. It's not as weak as
these numbers today suggest. This is
largely driven by immigration in an
economy that's hanging in there.
>> Mike, to that point, maybe the economy
is hanging in there, but on the margins,
is this buy government bonds, sell
corporate bonds,
>> you know, corporate bond spreads, as you
know, as we've all been talking about,
are really tight, meaning you're not
getting a lot of extra yield to to buy
corporates and and high yield bonds. and
and obviously you're seeing a little bit
of a knee-jerk uh reaction, a negative
reaction in the stock market as well.
And this, you know, this whole tariff
theme is definitely uh one of of not
only inflationary, you know, as you
know, we just talked about the the
stagflationary risk is real. Uh but it
it can certainly result in in margin
pressures for companies and I think uh
that is still to come and I think we are
starting to see some early evidence of
that and and obviously that could put
some pressure on corporate earnings that
could put some pressure on credit
quality and and on corporate spread. So
yeah, I think higher quality bonds and
and adding duration are the two themes
we've we've been sticking here. The big
question for the Fed, right? And and
Stephanie, you kind of talked about
this. If let's say growth is zero and
the unemployment rate is, you know, four
and a half or five, but inflation is at
three, you know, what does the Fed do in
that world, right? that that kind of
stagflationary world and and and my gut
is, you know, the Fed and and even
Powell, who is is a labor market dove,
would he on the side of saving the
economy, saving jobs, saving the labor
market, and and and write off this
inflationary risk as as being a one-off.
So, I think that's the kind of the the
the risks uh the way they're skewed.
>> Mike Collins of Pentium Fixed Income,
thank you so much for your time. And
before we got this number, we uh saw a
40% chance of a rate cut being biked
baked into the market for the month of
September. And right now we have a 71%
chance of a rate of of a rate cut in
September. Joining us now is Jeff
Rosenberg of Black Rockck. We heard
there from Mike Collins by bonds. Is
that your takeaway?
Well, certainly the market takeaway
because the market's repericing
September and it makes a lot of sense
and you guys hit on it and I think it is
the takeaway from today's report which
is it's the revisions story. Remember
there's been this undercurrent of a
debate about whether non-farm payrolls
in the labor market report is really
mismeasuring
uh the deterioration and you see that in
these first prints versus the revisions.
Wallers talked about it. It's a little
bit of vindication here. And that's
basically saying his argument may hold
sway or or or or convince more people to
to come on his side of the argument. And
you know, maybe they missed the
opportunity in July, but it certainly
raises the odds that you get it in
September. And that's why you're seeing
the the big move as you pointed out in
the front end of the curve.
>> Well, the president agrees with you. he
took to Trudeau had strong descents on
the Fed board and will only get
stronger. Given the revisions, the
downside revisions, is this now a trend
of this fragility we're seeing in the
labor market?
>> Well, it was one of the numbers that
Mike highlighted at the beginning. you
know, when you take the revisions into
account, uh, you know, the three-month
average change in in in on non-far
payrolls drops from 150,000 average,
which is really a very, you know, pretty
strong labor market to 35,000, which is
which is, you know, a dramatic shift.
Now, as Mike just mentioned, you know,
maybe we need to reset what we think is
break even, but with the revisions, it's
a dramatically different picture to what
the labor market is saying. And as also
Mike was talking about, you know, you
have a a pretty strong uh year-over-year
average hourly earnings figure, wage
inflation, you know, the market is not
caring about that because I agree with
Mike. I think in the debate between the
dual mandate of inflation versus uh full
employment, uh they're going to heir on
the side of full employment. And that's
why again I think you're seeing this big
move in the front end of the curve
despite you know what we're not really
talking a lot about which is the wage
number.
>> Yeah. Jeeoff I just wanted to jump in
because we had heard from Powell this
week who deemphasized the non non-farm
payroll numbers themselves and said pay
attention to the unemployment rate and
we were just talking with Stephanie
about this idea of it being impacted
more by labor supply and things like
immigration. So given that, couldn't you
say maybe for this bond market I
shouldn't get over my skis in joining
this rally because we did have things
like PCE yesterday which showed a
stubborn rate of inflation.
>> Yeah, it's a really good point and and
he did focus on on on that and the
unemployment rate, you know, ticked up
uh onetenth and that was kind of aligned
with expectations. Um but he also said
in that press uh conference that the
slowing in the labor markets even if
it's both demand and supply with the
equilibrium raises the risk that the
downside risk would be to labor markets.
It was a little bit of a tell on yes,
we're in equilibrium now because you're
getting both the supply and the demand
side falling, but the risk is that the
supply side sort of stops falling and
the demand side continues. And I think
that's kind of what the market is
looking through here, particularly
around this trend with the revisions. um
you know more accelerated than say what
we've seen in terms of labor force
participation which you mentioned a
minute ago uh which actually ticked down
here again a tenth uh but maybe you
start to see that stabilize while the
demand side doesn't stabilize and that's
the risk that the market's pricing in
right now
>> Jeeoff not all markets are pricing in
things equally I just pulled up what the
future session is doing you actually
just looking at the line chart would not
even have any idea that we had any big
economic piece of data come out S&P 500
futures are basically at the level they
were before. Is this a market that's not
paying attention to the jobs numbers or
it's just not bad enough for them to
react? Or maybe it's smooth sailing
because it means that we could get cuts.
What do you make of how risk is not
reacting?
>> Um well, you know, and I looked at some
of the futures and they looked like they
were reacting and and down. I think when
you look crossarket, um you know, we
talked a bit about this uh earlier this
week. You got to be a little bit careful
about reading into the equity market.
You know, this is very much sort of a
macro conversation, Fed policy,
macroeconomic performance. Uh the stock
market is not the economy and and the
stock market is not even the S&P 500.
It's really the S&P 7 or 6 and then
you've got the 493. There's tremendous
differential. Look at sort of small cap
performance versus, you know, S&P 500
performance, which is again it's sort of
more dominated by the tech story. So
those stories and we're in the middle of
earnings season, you know, they can be
much more dominant and reflective of
those issues than they are what we're
talking about here in the macro data. I
think when you look at the 2-year,
that's mapping to Fed expectations. And
that's a pretty good message. I think
when you start looking across into the
equity market, you got to be a little
bit more aware that, you know, there's
other factors going on uh in this
environment of very concentrated equity
valuation within the indices uh that can
kind of lead to a misread across from
the macro data.
>> Jeff Rosenberg of Black Rockck, thank
you so much for being with us. And as uh
Jeff was talking about, the chances of a
September Fed rate cut were increasing
yet again to 76% now from 40%. Stephanie
Roth of Wolf Research here with us uh
for a final thought. You've been parsing
through all of this. Notably, the
threemonth average of the net change in
jobs has fallen to its lowest level
going back to July of 2020 or June of
2020. What's your takeaway?
>> I think the lab the labor market has
softened. Part of it is a big part of it
has to do with immigration. Another big
part of it has to do with government.
About half of the revisions are driven
by the government sector. So, we're
looking at an economy that's holding up.
labor market has cooled down and
inflation is going to be heating up.
This is a really challenging backdrop
for for August for risk markets.
>> And Marie, the president's responding.
He's coming out on Truth Social.
>> Yeah. He's not exactly saying what's
happening in the jobs market, but he's
signaling this is the reason why he
thinks the Fed is quote his words, too
little, too late. Powell is a disaster.
Drop the rate.
>> And meanwhile, the S&P not even
responding. It's all about big tech.
>> No, not responding at all. Again, you
would have no idea that this piece of
data came out. It is the bond market
that is responding sending us to a more
than 70% odds that we will get that rate
cut next decision. Stephanie Roth of
Wolf Research, thank you so much. Coming
up on Monday, Edardenni of Yardeni
Research, Michael Gapen of Morgan
Stanley, Michelle Meyer of the
Mastercard Economics Institute, and Veno
Krishna of Barclays. This was Bloomberg
Surveillance.